on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, this is a very long motion which by the standards of the eu certainly does contain some passages of good sense, but there is one key paragraph that leaps out and that may help to solve a riddle for british voters: why are so many multinational corporations so wedded to britain staying in the eu? as paragraph 77 notes, ‘new entrants and smes doing business in only one country are penalised as compared to multinational companies, which can shift profits or implement other forms of aggressive tax planning through a variety of decisions and instruments available to them only’. the paragraph also ‘notes with concern that, all things being equal, the resulting lower tax liabilities leave multinationals with higher post-tax profits, and create an uneven playing field’. there we have it! the eu is a corporatist racket, and therefore british working people and small and medium-sized businesses alike would be better off out.
madam president, well tonight we are talking about the disastrous level of bluefin tuna stocks, quotas and commercial fishing methods. not one person in this room has mentioned angling, and i think our whole approach to fisheries simply is wrong. we have a quota system for most of our species, which of course in mixed fisheries has meant decades of discards on a truly horrendous scale. and whilst i, and everybody else, want a proper, sustainable commercial sector, we are massively underestimating the power of recreational sea angling to bring good – not just economically, but also the environmental benefit of our stocks not being hammered in the same way. in the united kingdom, just anglers targeting bass alone bring in gbp 200 million a year to the uk economy – far more than the level of commercial landings. in america they have got this right. they recognised on the east coast that the striped bass was an asset. after a complete moratorium they now regard that stock as primarily an angling resource which has led to a massive boom in jobs and boatbuilding and all those east coast coastal communities benefiting massively. but what have we done with our declining bass stock? we put a total ban in place for anglers, with after 1 july a derisory one fish limit per angler, whilst at the same time allowing the small commercial boats to use gillnets to catch 1.3 tonnes per month each. what we have done is wholly disproportionate, and frankly we are punishing anglers who did not cause the problem. and we did it, commissioner, through a regulation that you, a maltese bureaucrat, proposed, that was nodded through the council of ministers, that was not debated in the european parliament committee on fisheries, not debated or voted on here, certainly not debated on in the british parliament, and that will turn now ordinary people into criminals if they pursue their magna carta rights. and i hope that all 800 000 uk sea anglers say ‘damn the european commission’ and vote for us to get back control and management of our own waters. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– mr farage, as you know, the common fisheries policy went through a major reform recently, hailed even by greenpeace as a good reform. at that time, you were a member of the committee on fisheries of this parliament. i believe you attended, in two and a half years, just one or two meetings. at a time when all these issues were at stake, where major battles were going on, do you not think that any remarks you have about the common fisheries policy would have perhaps a bit more credibility if you actually bothered to do your job and show up to the meetings of the committee that you are a member of?
blue-card answer.– nice try, mr corbett, but clearly you were not listening, old son, were you? if i had attended every single meeting of the committee on fisheries for all the years i have been in this parliament – i am not a member of the committee anymore – there is nothing i could have done to help up to 800 000 people from our country who go out and target bass for their leisure activity. they provide jobs in coastal communities, they provide jobs in tackle shops and tackle manufacture, they provide, in many cases, the real important backdrop for harbours and coastal communities. this ban was brought in without it being debated in the committee on fisheries – so there is not much point going there – and without it being debated or voted on in this parliament. it was done by a regulation put forward by a maltese bureaucrat we cannot vote for and we cannot remove. mr corbett, what i want is for us to have a proper, functioning democracy and then we can discuss how we manage uk stocks. nice try. bad luck, old son.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i think we are all agreed that what we want is better air quality. we want an end to one-off laboratory tested type approval and we want to bring real-world driving emissions testing in as soon as possible. of course there are many technical details to be agreed, but the fundamental agreement is on the table from the 28 october tcmv meeting. that agreement represents a real change. by 2020 we will have a guaranteed conformity factor of 1.5. when you consider that some vehicles coming on stream now are probably emitting up to five or six times the 80 mg limit, how can you turn down the opportunity to limit that to 120 mg? people in europe with respiratory problems caused by pollution deserve that. i know we all want a conformity factor of 1 – of course we do, and i would like to see a commitment from both the commission and the member states that this will be reached by a specific date. supporting this objection will not get us that. it will merely create a delay that could stretch into months or even years. that is a delay in health improvement for tens of thousands of europeans. so let us use this opportunity to get round the table and agree when we are going to get to that conformity factor of 1, get the member states to agree to it too, rise above the interinstitutional stand-off and achieve results for our citizens.
madam president, the committee whose decision we are here discussing took that decision on the same day that we as a parliament took a very clear decision for ambitious targets with national emissions. this was sold to us as a technical change when in fact that change was political. dirty air kills. we are only now coming to know the full extent of how much dirty air is killing our citizens. we have known since 2006, but there has been a discrepancy between laboratory tests and real world emissions. indeed, the commission itself acknowledged this in 2011. we cannot have a situation where, nearly a decade after initial reports, we have to choose between the delay of badly needed real world driving emissions tests and between the standards that have already been decided between this parliament and the commission. commissioner, we cannot have any last-minute decisions made behind closed doors. we must come out of this process with a fair and consistent pathway to cleaner air, with the agreement, and the accountability, of this parliament.
in writing.– the agreement by governments, including the uk, to weaken diesel pollution limits was both legally and morally unjustifiable. this was a political decision with huge implications for public health, so it should been debated publicly and not stitched up behind closed doors. meps must veto this shameful stitch-up and demand stricter pollution limits. accepting weaker limits would mean stifling the transition to cleaner cars and prolonging deadly air pollution in our cities.
rapporteur.– madam president, recent dramatic events, such as the refugee crisis and the terrorist attacks in paris, have shown that, more than ever, europe must tackle these common challenges and promote its fundamental values – not in a divided way, but with unity. my report, therefore, aims to build on the common agreement reached by all 28 eu education ministers in the aftermath of the paris attacks. this ministerial agreement acknowledges that joint efforts are needed in order to prevent and tackle marginalisation, intolerance, racism and extremism, and to preserve a framework of equal opportunities for all. the report identifies opportunities, along with challenges, and makes concrete recommendations for action at all governmental levels, as well as at eu level, including the increased use of culture in external actions and in the development agenda. it recognises the unique role that culture, inclusive learning and active citizenship can play in building strong, confident, resilient and cohesive communities of the future. i decided to take a positive approach, particularly in respect of young people and the potential that they offer to society, and to celebrate that cultural diversity can create empathy, empower marginalised communities and foster more active citizenship. intercultural dialogues and exchanges also address stereotypes, prejudices and discrimination by the majority. intercultural practice demonstrates that you can only truly understand yourself when you encounter the other and thus see yourself reflected in another’s eyes. so the other becomes you and you become the other. you develop empathy, compassion and the ability to stand in someone else’s shoes. you see others, not as alien or unequal, but as neighbours, all part of the human family. when we refuse to engage in intercultural dialogue, the phenomenon of ‘othering’ begins and can ultimately lead to the terrible genocides we have witnessed. my report promotes the need to reinvigorate and promote healthy dialogue between all kinds of communities, leading to a better understanding and acceptance of common fundamental values, thereby laying the foundations for more inclusive and pluralistic societies. too often in times of crisis, the dominant media narrative is that somebody else is to blame for the world’s problems. this results in scapegoating and a culture of fear. however, when people come together and talk honestly and share in each other’s culture they learn that we are all human beings with common aspirations and concerns. during the recent devastating floods in my north—west region, the much—maligned muslim community were amongst the first to offer practical aid and moral support to remote rural communities, countering growing islamophobia through spontaneous intercultural dialogue born out of true compassion and demonstrating a greater degree of sympathy and solidarity than the government did. formal and informal education and intercultural dialogue are crucial tools for a more harmonious society. children are not born to hate, so tackling things from an early age is vital. but learning does not hold only one form and have only one purpose, nor does it solely concern children and young people. learning to be an active and responsible citizen is a lifelong learning process that can take many forms. we are sometimes afraid of otherness, and the best way to address this is to talk to different people, to share different practices and learn from different cultures. in this way we grow as people, gaining confidence, making friends, being surer of ourselves and, incidentally, being more employable and more entrepreneurial. i am proud to represent a region that includes examples of vibrant multicultural cities and towns, such as manchester, liverpool, preston blackburn, bury, bolton, rochdale, burnley, accrington and others. i know, therefore, that cultural diversity is an opportunity, not a threat, and i firmly believe it is a solution, not a problem. my report adopts an integrated approach when addressing this broad and complex topic, not separating culture, education, youth and active citizenship into four different fields of action but building bridges and synergies between all those elements. so i call on the commission and member states to also adopt a cross-cutting and coherent approach between all fields of their actions in and outside europe. the european union is at a particular point in history where notions of identity and belonging are contested, reconfigured and defended with strong feelings from a diversity of voices and divergent political perspectives. i look forward to a healthy debate and thank all those who have worked with me on this report.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i would not seek to question the largely well-intentioned nature of where this report is coming from. indeed, it contains positive elements, such as recognising the vital role of education and educators in integration and the importance of media literacy in the digital age. it does nevertheless contain many more aspects that the ecr and its uk delegation are unable to support, and which go way beyond the 17 march declaration. these include calls for stronger eu representations within the un, appointments of eu cultural attachés, harmonisation of visa procedures, adequate – which i would assume means ‘yet more’ – funding for europe for citizens, which has many controversial elements, and proposals relating to member state education policies and other items which are outside eu competences. the report is also full of references to eu citizens and eu citizenship, which many ecr members dislike and may surprise many uk citizens when efforts are being made by europhiles to persuade them that the eu’s ambitions are limited and have no federalist element to them; clearly not the case judging by elements in this report. as well as learning and understanding other cultures, it is important that we have understanding and pride in our own countries’ values. this is not referenced in this report, and may even be regarded as distasteful by some of its adherents: big mistake. education and intercultural dialogue are indeed vital tools in the fight against violent extremism. an expanded role for the eu is not. culture and education are national competences, and if the eu really wants to protect cultural diversity and subsidiarity they should remain so. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– an understanding of european history and its culture is vital for everybody who lives in the member states of the eu to progress, understand one another and cooperate. that does not in any sense translate into an added or statutory role for the eu in that particular area.
blue-card question.– you spoke about intercultural dialogue and the need to accept differences. i am sure that you are aware that, for example, in the qur’an, it says that muslims must not take non—believers as their friends, advisers and confidants as they cannot be trusted. the islamic religion teaches the doctrine of taqiya, which says that muslims may lie to non-muslims in order to further the interests of their religion. do you think that this is a bar to any meaningful intercultural dialogue and how do we overcome it?
madam president, as a eurosceptic, i am all for respecting national culture. i do not want the homogenised amorphous blob that comes when people try to promote a sterile pan-european culture. but you can bet your bottom euro that calls for more taxpayers’ cash to be splashed on eu culture, on white elephants like the lux prize, and on more eu at the united nations, are going to end up promoting the ring of stars without doing the blindest thing to strengthen those precious national cultures that we should be holding so dear. as for our education system promoting the eu, we need to remember that the education act of 1996 requires schools to be impartial on political issues. it is time to actually enforce that, not to have more and more eu pushed into our schools. let’s be neutral. if you want to know what is wrong with the labour party in this place, you need look no further than this report.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and colleagues for participating in the process of creating this report and in debating what is an extremely emotional subject. i thought i would just finish by telling you a story because to participate in intercultural dialogue does not mean giving up anything, it means engaging in a wider conversation with people from around the world, from different cultures, different places, different demographic areas, different ages, different religions, people of different skin colour, people from different walks of life, from different industrial areas and rural areas. it means a richness, not a giving up of anything. i was brought up in a family that every week went to dance english country dancing. my father is a morris man, and ‘morris dancing’ probably comes from ‘moorish dancing’. it comes from africa, it comes from islam. and it is important that people understand that our culture is not fixed; it is always changing. it needs to be open, because the richness of the past meeting with the present to create the future is what is so exciting about being human, about having conversations with other people. so this report is about openness and about welcoming, inclusive conversations with everybody. it is not about closing down society, and i look forward to working with you.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, firstly i would like to thank mr balz for all his hard work on this file and the commissioner for extending the deadline for his consultation. as others have stated, over the past five years the eu has put in place an unprecedented amount of financial services legislation. therefore it is right that we take a step back and look at the overlaps and crossovers at this time. mr balz’s report clearly emphasises that this review needs to go beyond value judgements and qualitative statements and stresses that any meaningful review should have a strongly quantitative aspect to it. for me the key areas of this report refer to the overlaps between files, particularly the crossover between mifid and crd iv, where we have brought new firms into markets legislation without adequately tailoring the capital standards to suit these new types of firms as yet. a similar issue of scope is seen with the clearing obligation in emir: the arrangements for non-financial firms that were intended to prevent financial firms from misusing a justified exemption have led to huge amounts of red tape for businesses that were never meant to be included. i hope to work with the commission on solutions via the formal consultation and review, where possible by issuing level two standards to solve these issues and give practical weight to better regulation.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, john maynard keynes stated that if you owe a bank 100 pounds you have a problem, but if you owe the bank a million, they do. in the eu financial regulation crisis the banks were owed billions, but it was the taxpayers and citizens of europe who had the problem. this report states that eu financial services regulations will prevent that happening again, but it also stresses the need to reduce the burden of financial regulation, because it recognises it increases costs and makes eu financial services businesses uncompetitive. but the idea that the eu will reduce regulation is as fanciful as the idea that britain needs to be a member of the eu to trade with it, or indeed that lord hill will support a vote for brexit. it is inherent in the eu’s dna to create more regulation – more europe – and more costs. that is why, increasingly, so many more uk and us financial services companies understand that, in order to be really free from the shackles of eu regulation, the uk needs to vote to leave the eu.
mr president, firstly, i would like to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur on this report. i believe it strikes the right balance between improving channels of funding to the real economy and at the same time undertaking a comprehensive assessment of the cumulative impact of the eu financial services regulation – identifying shortcomings and loopholes, but not deregulating. the ongoing crisis in china demonstrates the importance for us not to forget the lessons that we learned from the financial crisis and the need for a robust financial regulatory framework. it is important to keep this perspective. also this initiative, the capital markets union, is not going to be a panacea. it is not a miracle solution that will solve the level of growth. however, it can deliver alternative sources of finance to companies in the whole of the eu, and not just to the ones in the handful of member states where we have developed capital markets. the challenge in front of you, commissioner, is this: can we really speak about a financial services union, a place where capital can circulate freely, unhindered by extra layers of national legislation? not really. it is critical that you address this, otherwise the eu investment funds will remain a drop in the ocean compared with the american ones. the commission must tackle national fragmentation urgently. alongside action on this, it is important that mid-caps are able to maximise their potential. therefore, the prospectus proposal has to be a real gateway to the capital markets for this group. it has to be short, effective and affordable and, at the same time, an instrument that truly informs investors about securities.
mr president, youth unemployment across europe is a long-term time bomb, damaging individuals and society for years to come. eradicating youth unemployment should be at the heart of our economic and industrial policies, and there is no excuse for sacrificing our young people. my home region, the north-east of england, has some of the highest youth unemployment figures in the uk, and as a result we qualify for extra funds from the eu youth employment initiative. eu funds and the ideas in this report can support falling youth unemployment by creating opportunities for our young people, and certainly training, good apprenticeships and investment in education are crucial. but we should avoid demonising our young. it is a lack of decent jobs which needs to be addressed. for many more young people, it is not skills but breaking the cycle of precarious temporary jobs that is needed. youth employment measures should create good jobs. low pay, exploitation and zero hours contracts are creating a new social time bomb. we must act to deactivate it if we want to activate our young for the future.
mr president, youth unemployment in europe has reached scandalous levels, and this has two main causes. one is the european single currency, and the other is over-regulation on business. britain is not in the euro, but we do get the over-regulation. we also get large numbers of eu migrant workers fleeing their own floundering economies. recently i had a conversation with a young englishman in london. he was doing low—paid casual work on building sites. he told me that he was told to take a pay cut or he would be replaced by a cheaper eastern european. those at the bottom end of the economic scale cannot compete with cheap labour that will work for next to nothing per hour and live many to a house. britain’s young people should defend their future by voting to leave the european union in the coming referendum.
mr president, i have had much constituent correspondence about the proposed firearms directive amendment, most notably from the imperial war museum, the national army museum and the royal armouries. the proposed amendment would require museums to deactivate or destroy their historical collections, and it would prevent them making further acquisitions. this amendment is a panic reaction to the paris massacre. how many criminal and terrorist acts have been carried out using antique weapons, we may ask? none, i would guess. these museums asked for an exemption, but any exemption should equally apply to all collectors of antique weapons. ukip meps will certainly support that. this is just the latest example of my constituents’ legitimate interests being damaged by ill-considered and unnecessary legislation. if they do not like it, then i advise them to take up arms – metaphorically, of course – and campaign to leave the european union in the coming referendum.
mr president, the legitimacy of the european union to act as honest brokers in the middle east peace process has again been brought into question. i was struck by a recent israeli press article about a prominent ngo, b’tselem, that campaigns, supposedly, on behalf of palestinians. it reported that b’tselem had set up a fake land agency, trapping palestinians wanting to sell their land to israelis. they were then reported to palestinian security services, well knowing that they would likely be killed. that this ngo behaves in such a manner is reprehensible. that this ngo receives eu funding is unforgivable. last month b’tselem received eur 30 000 from the european endowment for democracy, whose chair of board of governors is elmar brok, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs (afet), who sits alongside another nine meps. i wonder whether eu money is simply being funnelled through the eed to avoid parliamentary scrutiny. either way, the european union has blood on its hands.
mr president, i would like to thank the presidency for all their work and cooperation in helping reach a conclusion on the eu pnr agreement. this is one of the most challenging files that parliament has seen, and in the most challenging of times. i would like to ask the parliament to adopt the directive as soon as possible. there is no need for more delays and the sooner we adopt the instruments, the sooner member states can start implementing them. lives, liberties and security are of course at stake. i also speak as the rapporteur of the eu permanent relocation mechanism. this next presidency will guide us on a number of issues: dublin, the border force and ecri. of course we need fresh and new ideas and i welcome them in a system which is bogged down in complexity and compromise. i urge the president of the commission to do the thing we need most though – to implement the things we already have available. many of the issues we face are a direct result of the breakdown of applying existing rules, and there are inevitably consequences. laws without meaningful implementation are useless, but i hope that there will be a focus in the next few months on implementation.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, if we are to succeed in a competitive world, we must embrace the benefits of the digital revolution. the sharing economy brings huge opportunities and platforms which enable economic growth and help us to address societal issues and even to help solve environmental problems. yes, there are changes. traditional distinctions between businesses and consumers and between market incumbents and new entrants are evolving and mutating. this brings new challenges, but any rules we set must help underpin the digital economy, not undermine it. we should work with existing rules where possible, address the risks and not put a handbrake on the innovators or add more costs. most of parliament’s report follows this positive tone, which i support. unfortunately, some of the commission’s recent actions are not quite so sensible. their proposal for digital purchases creates a two—tier structure between online and offline sales and, just at a time when we wanted to build consumer trust, this risks creating confusion. data is key. we do need clear rules and we need to be able to harness the benefits from big data, whilst also respecting privacy. but i am a bit concerned about the impact of our new regulation on small businesses and i know that late—night, last—minute rushed negotiations are not the way to achieve clear, coherent legislation. our single market has 500 million consumers in 28 countries. they want to be able to trade online with companies all across the world. the digital world is a borderless world. we need to work together across europe and across the world as well. protectionism will not work.
mr president, the digital revolution is here. it will transform every aspect of life in the same way the agricultural and industrial revolution transformed life before it. it will change the way we work, play and live, but to take advantage of it we need to recognise that we have a global market of 3 billion connected people. this is not about a european internal market; it is about a global market and therefore we should not be putting up new barriers. for example, this debate is streamed all over the world, yet content we buy online is blocked. technologically, this is nonsense as you have to add something to the internet in order to block it. it feeds piracy and consumers do not understand it. therefore i welcome the portability proposals, but we do not need pan—european licences. we also need to support the sharing economy. people want to share. let us let them share and build businesses which can go global, but let us be clear: for digital to work it needs to disrupt and challenge existing business models and vested interests. we should embrace and welcome this. the internet is global by default. let us not cut europe off: whether it is in cloud security, data or digital content or the sharing economy, the digital tsunami is coming. let us embrace it.
mr president, the discussion and vote on this report today is, quite frankly, a complete and utter waste of parliamentary time: not solely because i disagree with many aspects in the creation of this digital single market, but because before this report has even gone to vote, the commission has already been solidly working behind the scenes to create and rush through legislation to achieve its goals. it is in this great rush that errors are made and it is we, the consumers and businesses of the eu, who have to bear the burden of poor legislation. take, for example, the recent changes to vat rules for the sale of digital services, a scheme thought up by the bureaucrats of the commission, who have little to no experience of running a business. unsurprisingly, one year on from its introduction, this eu proposal has forced thousands of small businesses across europe to cease trading within this internal market. yet, rather than admit defeat, this report has the cheek to suggest that, overall, the vat rules have been a success. at a time when faith in the european union is at an all—time low, it is embarrassing to see the suggestion in this report that the eu trustmark for online sales will induce consumer trust.
mr president, there are elements in these proposals which will be popular with voters – i should certainly be very pleased if i could access the bbc’s iplayer service while i am in brussels and strasbourg – but we must bear in mind that if we dismantle existing copyright arrangements we may deny media companies the resources they need to produce the new content that viewers also want. we in my party are concerned that the commission’s inflexible top-down model of regulation is inimical to innovation and too often fails to meet the needs of individual member states. we recognise that a degree of cross-border coordination is required to ensure that the internet and digital communications work efficiently across europe, but we believe that such coordination would best be achieved by independent nations cooperating and negotiating with each other, rather than by the eu’s central planning approach. as several colleagues have said, what we actually need is a global – not merely a european – solution.
mr president, it is very fortuitous that this report is being debated on the co-rapporteur evelyne gebhardt’s birthday, and i should like to start by wishing her a very happy birthday. i think that the digital single market, as we have heard, is full of potential. we have 500 million citizens, 28 countries and an estimated worth of eur 415 billion. but with regard to accessibility, skills and mind-set, we must make sure that, whether you live in the highlands of scotland or you live in the urban centres of glasgow or edinburgh, you have accessibility to superfast broadband. that is really important, but so are accessibility and affordability. we have seen that and heard about that, and about equality. on skills: we must make sure that the digital skills gap does not become a digital chasm. we must ensure that our citizens have ict. let me give an example, 55 000 job vacancies exist in the uk just now in ict, and that is set to grow to 171 000 vacancies by 2020. we must ensure that our citizens have the skills and mind-set. we are, as many have said, going through a third industrial revolution. we have to have the mind-set to capture the potential, and i think we can do that today.
rapporteur.– mr president, thank you, and i would like also to thank all the colleagues, staff, education experts, civil society, faith groups and young people themselves, with whom i have consulted throughout this process, for helping me to put together a report that presents a positive future for young people, for our future communities, through a process of talking to one another. dialogue is about conversations.
mr president, i thought we were checking on part 2 of 62, not part 2 of 60. our screens showed 60, part 2.
in writing. – the mep in question accepts his immunity being waived and is not contesting it and there is no question of political interference. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should be a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i voted to waive the parliamentary immunity. i do wish to note, however, my annoyance at the amount of public time spent dealing with a minor speeding offence. however, ultimately, that is a matter for the people of poland rather than the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity of mr siekerski, a polish mep (epp/polish people’s party; chairman agri) who is alleged to have committed an offence of speeding (exceeding the permitted speed limit in a built-up area). the alleged offence has no evident link of any kind to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances the polish courts should have jurisdiction over his case.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity of mr siekerski, a polish mep (epp/polish people’s party; chairman agri) who is alleged to have committed an offence of speeding (exceeding the permitted speed limit in a built-up area). the alleged offence has no evident link of any kind to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances the polish courts should have jurisdiction over his case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of mr siekierski, given that he was not performing any parliamentary duties at the time of the incident for which he is facing charges in poland.
in writing. – my colleagues and i voted to waive the immunity of mr siekierski, a polish mep (epp/polish people’s party; chairman agri) who is alleged to have committed an offence of speeding (exceeding the permitted speed limit in a built-up area). the alleged offence has no evident link of any kind to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances the polish courts should have jurisdiction over his case.
in writing. ‒ i voted to lift the immunity of czesław adam siekierski as from the circumstances of the case it appears that the alleged offence and the ensuing prosecution clearly have nothing to do with the position of mr siekierski as a member of the european parliament and that there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity of mr siekierski, a polish mep (epp/polish people’s party; chairman agri) who is alleged to have committed an offence of speeding (exceeding the permitted speed limit in a built-up area). the alleged offence has no evident link of any kind to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances the polish courts should have jurisdiction over his case.
in writing. i supported the waiver of immunity because i agree with the view that mr. siekierski's actions are not in the exercise of his mandate.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity of mr siekierski, a polish mep (epp/polish people’s party; chairman agri) who is alleged to have committed an offence of speeding (exceeding the permitted speed limit in a built-up area). the alleged offence has no evident link of any kind to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances the polish courts should have jurisdiction over his case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as i do not believe the alleged offence was in line with his duties as an mep.
in writing. ‒ on 9 september 2015, mr czesław adam siekierski had been caught speeding in poland, and given that the polish constitution provides that deputies and senators must not be subject to criminal accountability without the consent of their respective chamber – in this case the european parliament – i have voted in favour of waiving the immunity of mr sierkierski. it is clear that, at the time of this incident, mr sierkierski was not performing any parliamentary duties and there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis. i do not wish to stand in the way of the rule of law, and i see no reason not to waiver his immunity at this time.
in writing. – the mep in question accepts his immunity being waived and is not contesting it and there is no question of political interference. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should be a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i voted to waive the parliamentary immunity. i do wish to note, however, my annoyance at the amount of public time spent dealing with a minor speeding offence. however, ultimately, that is a matter for the people of poland rather than the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity of mr siekierski, a polish mep (epp/polish people’s party; chairman agri) who is alleged to have committed an offence of speeding (exceeding the permitted speed limit in a built-up area). the alleged offence has no evident link of any kind to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances the polish courts should have jurisdiction over his case.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity of mr siekierski, a polish mep (epp/polish people’s party; chairman agri) who is alleged to have committed an offence of speeding (exceeding the permitted speed limit in a built-up area). the alleged offence has no evident link of any kind to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances the polish courts should have jurisdiction over his case.
in writing. – my colleagues and i voted to waive the immunity of mr siekierski, a polish mep (epp/polish people’s party; chairman agri) who is alleged to have committed an offence of speeding (exceeding the permitted speed limit in a built-up area). the alleged offence has no evident link of any kind to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances the polish courts should have jurisdiction over his case.
in writing. ‒ i voted to lift the member’s immunity as there is no suspicion that the matter is being brought before a court with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity of mr siekierski, a polish mep (epp/polish people’s party; chairman agri) who is alleged to have committed an offence of speeding (exceeding the permitted speed limit in a built-up area). the alleged offence has no evident link of any kind to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances the polish courts should have jurisdiction over his case.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity of mr siekierski, a polish mep (epp/polish people’s party; chairman agri) who is alleged to have committed an offence of speeding (exceeding the permitted speed limit in a built-up area). the alleged offence has no evident link of any kind to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances the polish courts should have jurisdiction over his case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as i do not believe the alleged offence was in line with his duties as an mep.
in writing. ‒ mr siekerski was caught speeding in a built—up area on 5 october 2015. this is the second vote that the european parliament has tabled against czeclaw siekierski for his traffic offences, and again i do not wish to stand in the way of the course of justice and so i give my consent to waiver this mep’s parliamentary immunity at this time for this offence.
mr president, while we were discussing this yesterday mr farage raised an issue which had nothing to do with this report but which concerned the issue of sea bass and the measures taken to protect sea bass, with which he was dissatisfied, and he launched a tirade against the commission. yet i would have thought that somebody who had been a member of this parliament for so many years would know a little bit about how decisions are taken in this european union. the commission merely made a proposal on this. it was the elected ministers of the national governments of the member states who took the decision to which he objected, including the british conservative minister, mr george eustice, but rather than turning his fire on those responsible for the decision, he twists it and turns it into an attack on the commission, displaying either his ignorance or his cynicism in trying to use this as an issue in the forthcoming british referendum. it is a deplorable way of behaving.
mr president, it always makes sense to judge an organisation on the basis of its record. we have had the president of the commission coming before this chamber and explaining how the eu needs to expand into having a common military policy and a common tax policy and so on, so the first question we should ask before we make those steps is: how has it performed in the fields where it already has jurisdiction? now the common fisheries policy was introduced in 1972. let us look at that record, look at the way in which, having hoovered up the stocks from the once teeming waters of the north sea, we are now, as we see in this report, having to go further and further afield, exporting the ecological catastrophe and destroying what ought to have been a great renewable resource. is there anything in that record that tells us that these are the same institutions, the same men and women, that we should put in charge of policing, or the army, or tax, or any new area of policy? let us infer from what we can see.
mr president, today a single man, a single commissioner from malta is introducing a regulation – not a directive – but a rule that will impact on 800 000 anglers in the united kingdom who spend their leisure time seeking fish but who are being told now by one man, unelected by them, and unelected by anybody in europe, that they can only catch one fish. it does not matter in this european union about democracy; it does not matter about people power; it only matters about what the elites believe is right for them. abraham lincoln once said ‘no man is good enough to govern [...] without the other’s consent’. oh pray, if only the european union would understand the principle that ‘governance is by the people, for the people, and of the people’ to borrow another quote, not by themselves, for themselves, and only for themselves.
in writing. – multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. on the mato report, for ireland it is not of particular relevance as we do not have a commercial quota for bluefin. however, we supported all the amendments to the proposal, and the subsequent text as amended. however we did not support the original unamended commission proposal and legislative resolution. in the original commission proposal, it sought to immediately transpose future amendments to this recovery plan through delegated act on what could be considered arbitrary grounds. ‘on duly justified imperative grounds of urgency, the commission shall adopt immediately applicable implementing acts’. this would result in further limited parliamentary power and input, which we could not accept.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of an s&d amendment which seeks to review quotas to ensure that large vessels do not have a monopoly; even though such a matter should be in the domain of the member states i felt that it was important to make the resolution less bad. however, although i want to see bluefin tuna numbers recover, i do not believe that the eu should be adopting international agreements in its own name. that should be the responsibility of sovereign governments. furthermore, the cfp has been a disaster for british fisheries and for management of fish stocks. i therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this, not because we do not want bluefin tuna numbers to recover – we do – but because the report, by adopting an international agreement, endorses the eu’s right to operate the common fisheries policy – a behavioural-economic, long-term catastrophe, especially for the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this, not because we do not want bluefin tuna numbers to recover – we do – but because the report, by adopting an international agreement, endorses the eu’s right to operate the common fisheries policy – a behavioural-economic, long-term catastrophe, especially for the uk.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, bringing eu legislation into line with measures enacted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), the overarching organisation responsible for the management of tuna. although the uk has no direct fishing interests in tuna, it is important that the eu, as a member of iccat, respects its measures, and helps uphold international agreements on fishing, which is in all our interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased to see measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the east atlantic and mediterranean, adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) between 2012 and 2014, being transposed into eu law.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside my fellow labour mep colleagues, voted in favour of this report. with this report we can transpose into union law measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean as adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings between 2012 to 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is necessary to ensure that the eu complies with international regulations relating to bluefin tuna.
in writing. – i voted against this, not because we do not want bluefin tuna numbers to recover, we do, but because the report, by adopting an international agreement, endorses the eu’s right to operate the common fisheries policy – a behavioural-economic, long-term catastrophe, especially for the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it aims to transpose into union law measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat).
in writing. ‒ i welcome this recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic. i am pleased that it states that ‘when implementing the recovery plan, the union and member states should pay particular attention to non-industrial fishing activities and to the most artisanal and sustainable gear types, such as traditional traps (“almadrabas”, “tonnare”), which contribute very positively to the rebuilding of tuna stocks, due to their high level of selectivity and low environmental impact in marine ecosystems, and which are valuable in scientific terms.’
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it transposes very well the decisions made at international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this, not because we do not want bluefin tuna numbers to recover, we do, but because the report, by adopting an international agreement, endorses the eu’s right to operate the common fisheries policy – a behavioural-economic, long-term catastrophe, especially for the uk.
written. ‒ i support the draft legislative resolution by mr gabriele mate on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009. in the interest of clarity, simplification and legal certainty, regulation (ec) no 302/2009 should be repealed. certain provisions of regulation (ec) no 302/2009 are obsolete, in particular as they are now covered by other union acts, and should be deleted. the remaining provisions need to be updated to reflect changes in the legislation. the proposal aims to transpose into union law the measures of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna (bft) in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean. last year (2015), for the first time since the establishment of the bluefin tuna recovery plan in 2006, the fishing quota allocated to the european union was significantly increased (more than 9 372 tonnes). the commission has also concluded that the fishing opportunities available to the union for bluefin tuna in the north sea are adequate to cover the fishing opportunities available to the union for bluefin tuna in the north sea. the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) is satisfied with the efforts made so far and the results achieved in the recovery of tuna, but it is very important to continue to follow the scientific advice and the overall plan. the commission has also assessed the fishing opportunities available to the union in the baltic sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this, not because we do not want bluefin tuna numbers to recover, we do, but because the report, by adopting an international agreement, endorses the eu’s right to operate the common fisheries policy – a behavioural-economic, long-term catastrophe, especially for the uk.
in writing. ‒ while i am in favour of making sure that our fish stocks are protected for future generations, i am against the eu acting like a state by trying to regulate in this area. nation states should control their own waters and fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ although my constituency has a very limited stake in the fisheries industry, being completely landlocked, i do believe that an organised approach for the industry is important for the conservation of this planet. i supported this legislative proposal as it has transposed quite well the decisions that were made at the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna; the proposal mostly contained technical measures relating to the transfer and caging operations of live bluefin tuna and catch controls for this species.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will ensure the correct transposal into eu law of uncontroversial measures which were agreed at the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
mr president, this report has covered a wide range of things linked to competition policy in its broadest sense and there is one issue which is highly topical at the moment, which is the competition faced in our steel sector by what looks like dumping from chinese steel producers and which is, of course, a competition matter as well as a trade matter. the commission some time ago proposed to strengthen our defence measures when facing a situation like this but, lo and behold, which is one of the countries that has been blocking that in the council, which has been holding it up, which has been preventing us from taking more effective action? why, the united kingdom! the british conservative government is one of the culprits in allowing this situation to arise, without strengthening our hand in dealing with a situation like this. that compounds their failure to take action nationally, which they, like other governments, could have done within the competition rules of the treaty. they have failed to do so, and some of them seem tempted from time to time to do what they always do, which is to blame brussels.
mr president, according to the imf, the share of world gdp taken up by the 28 members of the eu fell from 30% in 1980 to 17% in 2015. what accounts for that extraordinary shrinkage? it will not do to say that it is just developing countries catching up. you do not have any similar shrinkage or any equivalent one in north america or australia or other advanced economies. i think we all know what the problem is, it is the over-regulation. i am not just talking about job-destroying directives like the reach directive, the aifmd or the ham-fisted attempts at tax harmonisation and so on, i am talking about the institutionalised corporate lobbying which is based around raising barriers to entry and setting the rules in a way that favour the mega-banks and the multinational corporations and squeeze out their smaller competitors, thereby driving many wealth creators and entrepreneurs into exile if they want to succeed. as long as this system remains, the european union economically is fated to continue its genteel decline.
mr president, i voted against this report while agreeing with the authors that we, as legislators, have a duty to promote an economic environment that is competitive. however, this should be one which allows businesses across europe to enter new markets and which removes barriers to growth in national economies. i would like to deal with the issue of state aid specifically. in northern ireland, the quarrying industry has been beset for many years by an investigation by the commission into exemptions from the uk aggregates levy given to local operators. while it is positive that the commission ruled that the majority of these were lawful, its decision to retrospectively collect a decade’s worth of levy from those who extracted shale continues to loom large over the future of our industry. in counties armagh, down and fermanagh specifically, this reality has the potential to put small quarry operators out of business. it is important to remember that these companies acted in good faith and are now facing penalties through no fault of their own. i have met with the commissioner to highlight their plight, but it is important that this should never happen again and that companies can act in good faith.
mr president, milton friedman once said that the greatest advances of civilisation, whether in architecture, painting, science, literature, industry or agriculture, have never come from centralised government. well, here we are sitting in the european union epicentre of centralised government: centralised in the council, centralised by unelected commissioners. and in competition – and this policy in particular – we see once more how this centralised government wants to take control of business and how it acts. the eu has centralised currencies in the euro, and we now see the damage in the eurozone and how much unemployment for young people exists. it has centralised rules and regulations, and we can see what the impact on trade of the european union is. what we must take as a lesson from this is that the european union should not be centralised any more. give it back to the nation states and make them free to compete on the world stage.
in writing. – by way of background information, this is an own-initiative report oriented to set the vision of the european parliament on the implementation of competition policy by the general directorate of competition of european commission. the competition working group of the economic and monetary affairs committee drafts every year this report with its analysis of the actions taken during the past exercise and setting its main priorities for the next year. there were some positive provisions contained within this report such as a focus on abuses of dominant positions and cartels. moreover, there were progressive provisions in relation to addressing the issue of state aid particularly in the financial sector however, there were many other provisions which overstepped the competitiveness of the eu, for example a call for a european legislative framework and also the focus on the introduction of the ccctb. it was for these reasons, that i abstained on the report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report because it calls upon the commission to take action on matters which should be within the remit of member states; it seeks to extend the power of a protectionist european parliament into competition law. however, a more pressing reason to oppose the report as a whole was that it calls for the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base. harmonisation across all 28 member states is rarely in the interests of all, and specifically in the united kingdom – which prides itself on being a good place to trade – this can only be bad for business.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament’s report on the eu’s competition policy encourages the harmonisation of taxation across the eu – for this reason, and to defend tax sovereignty, ukip voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's report on the eu's competition policy encourages the harmonisation of taxation across the eu – for this reason, and to defend tax sovereignty, ukip voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i am afraid i cannot support this report, which is supposed to be about competition policy, but instead chooses to address many issues of taxation, growing the eu’s own resources and enhancing the european parliament’s powers at the expense of national governments. i cannot support calls for a common consolidated corporate tax base, nor the attempt to grab even more own resources for the eu by allocating recovered illegal state aid to the eu budget. similarly i do not feel the european parliament should be given co-decision powers in the field of competition policy. for all of these reasons i voted against this year’s report on competition policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on competition policy. a strong european competition policy not only ensures that consumers get the best possible deal, but also that small and local business in the west midlands can compete on a level playing field. in light of the ongoing crisis in the uk steel industry, i particularly welcome paragraph 54, which ‘requests a study into whether current eu provisions on state aid inhibit the consolidation and strengthening of competitiveness among european firms vis-à-vis their global competitors.’
in writing. ‒ alongside fellow labour meps, i voted in favour of the annual report on eu competition policy. i believe that it is with a strong european competition policy that we can best ensure that our consumers are getting the best possible deal, and that our small and local businesses are competing on a level playing field. being a part of a 500 million strong consumer market is surely one of the biggest benefits we receive from being a part of the eu, and by developing as well as enforcing strong rules for fair competition, we can ensure more innovation, more opportunity and a better deal for british consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is through a strong european competition policy that we are able to ensure that our consumers are getting the best possible deal. it also means that our small and local businesses are competing on a level playing field. being part of a market with half a billion consumers is one of the biggest benefits we get from being in the eu. by developing and enforcing strong rules for fair competition we ensure more innovation, more opportunity, and ultimately a better deal for british citizens and consumers.
in writing. ‒ on balance i was able to support this report whilst retaining reservations on some of its content. eu competition policy is extremely important although it must always be framed within the context of a healthy social europe. furthermore, whilst i support eu efforts to coordinate efforts against tax evasion, i consider that taxation law itself must remain a member state competence.
in writing. – the european parliament's report on the eu's competition policy encourages the harmonisation of taxation across the eu – for this reason, and to defend tax sovereignty, my fellow colleagues and i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on competition policy because it is through a strong european competition policy that we are able to ensure that our consumers are getting the best possible deal, and that our small and local businesses are competing on a level playing field. being part of a market with 500 million consumers is one of the biggest benefits we get from being in the eu, and by developing and enforcing strong rules for fair competition we ensure more innovation, more opportunity, and ultimately a better deal for british citizens and consumers.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, tata steel uk announced the loss of over 1 000 jobs in its uk steel manufacturing facilities, including in hartlepool. my thoughts have been with those affected by this decision. they find themselves in the same situation as the thousands of jobs lost in this sector during the last quarter of 2015, including in redcar at ssi. on 24 november 2016, the commission responded to my written question on state aid rules, clearly stating that ‘under eu state aid rules, the steel sector can benefit from several categories of aid: r&d and innovation, training, employment and environmental aid can thus contribute to long-term competitiveness of the sector. moreover member states can also mitigate the effect of higher electricity prices to the sector induced by the eu emissions trading scheme.’ the uk steel industry is in free-fall, the uk government is refusing to pull the parachute open, and soon our entire industry will be irreparably damaged. that is why i submitted an amendment to today’s annual report on eu competition policy calling for europe-wide action to tackle the crisis in the steel sector. i am delighted that this amendment and the report gained broad support. no more talk: we need concrete action to save our steel.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. i particular welcome the paragraph that ‘reiterates that eu structural funds may not be used in a way that directly or indirectly encourages the relocation of services or production to another member state, e.g. by a waiting period for undertakings receiving such funds; stresses that state aid is sometimes necessary in order to guarantee the delivery of services of general economic interest (sgei), including energy, transport and telecommunications; emphasises that state intervention is often the most effective policy tool for guaranteeing the provision of services that are vital to safeguarding economic and social conditions in isolated, remote or outlying regions and islands in the union’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on competition policy because it is through a strong european competition policy that we are able to ensure that our consumers are getting the best possible deal, and that our small and local businesses are competing on a level playing field. being part of a market with 500 million consumers is one of the biggest benefits we get from being in the eu, and by developing and enforcing strong rules for fair competition we ensure more innovation, more opportunity, and ultimately a better deal for british citizens and consumers.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's report on the eu's competition policy encourages the harmonisation of taxation across the eu – for this reason, and to defend tax sovereignty, ukip voted against the report.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the annual report on eu competition policy by mr werner lange. competition policy is one of the european union's main instruments for achieving the common internal market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the annual losses due to the existence of the cartel (monopolistic association) amount to between eur 181 and eur 320 billion, representing approximately 3% of the union's gdp. so we need to limit unfair market practices as a result of monopoly and dominance in the marketplace so that every individual has a fair chance of success. furthermore, in terms of energy costs, the european single market is less successful than the us internal market, with a price dispersion of 31% compared to 22% in the us. in many member states, the severe credit crisis continues to affect smes, which represent 98% of eu enterprises and 67% of all employees. the redefinition of competition policy will result in a more transparent and competitive single market, which is crucial for growth and genuine recovery. i consider that a competition policy, with a guarantee of a level playing field for all market participants, is an important means of protecting the rights and benefits of consumers, citizens, businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and workers in the context of a social market economy.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament’s report on the eu’s competition policy encourages the harmonisation of taxation across the eu – for this reason, and to defend tax sovereignty, ukip voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this policy as it expands the commission’s protectionist policies into our market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the commission’s annual report on competition policy in the eu because in order to get the best possible deal for our consumers we need a robust and dynamic competition policy which will ensure that our small and local businesses are competing on a level playing-field with the larger businesses. being part of the world’s largest single market, at over half a billion consumers, is one of the largest benefits that we get from being in the european union. this is great for businesses and consumers in the west midlands, and i am glad to come to the european parliament to ensure citizens’ voices are being heard when it comes to the evaluation and formation of eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on competition policy because it is through a strong european competition policy that we are able to ensure that our consumers are getting the best possible deal, and that our small and local businesses are competing on a level playing field. being part of a market with 500 million consumers is one of the biggest benefits we get from being in the eu, and by developing and enforcing strong rules for fair competition we ensure more innovation, more opportunity, and ultimately a better deal for british citizens and consumers.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of the report on the annual report on competition policy because it is through a strong european competition policy that we are able to ensure that our consumers are getting the best possible deal, and that our small and local businesses are competing on a level playing field. this report is also sympathetic to national needs. to promote the development and competitiveness of european industry, it is vital that our industry is invested in and properly protected, as the recent news from tata highlighted. the single market of over 500 million people is one of the greatest strengths of our union, and by developing and enforcing strong rules for fair competition we ensure more innovation, more opportunities, and ultimately a better deal for british citizens and consumers.
mr president, as a member of this house from northern ireland, i recognise fully the transformation that can occur in lives, particularly for young people, as a result of engaging positively with those that are assumed to come from a different background or hold diverse beliefs. in light of the spate of terror attacks and the trend of radicalisation witnessed in europe in recent months, i am in full support of appropriate measures aimed at stopping the recruitment of young people and combating the wave of division and intolerance that besets us. however, while sending a joint message right across europe, it is important in this battle that national governments have the primary role to play. this report attempts to influence the nature of national education. it wants to harmonise legislation around cultural heritage and cultural expression. these are matters for sovereign governments to decide, not the european parliament. grassroots divisions require grassroots solutions and this is something that the unrelenting federalists in this house today should remind themselves of.
in writing. ‒ whilst much of this report refers to matters which everyone can agree on – for example, suggesting that we need greater understanding between different cultures – the remedies proposed for this situation will be a hindrance rather than a help. in the united kingdom, education should always be politically neutral. this is enshrined in law under the education act of 1996. therefore i am most concerned by calls for further eu involvement in our education system. furthermore, the report frequently calls for taxpayers’ money to be spent on various initiatives. yet far from strengthening the genuine national and local cultures which are so vibrant across europe, it would rather foster a non-existent ‘european culture’, forgetting rather conveniently that almost half of all european countries are not even members of the european union!
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. this report provided another dimension in which the eu’s scope could be widened in the field of education, external relations, mobility and integration, while promoting ‘eu fundamental values’. this report calls for the addition of intercultural dialogue into national curricula, eu representation within the un, and the harmonising of visa procedures, and calls for additional funding, all for the purpose of preventing radicalisation and helping integration. whilst we agree that radicalisation, extremism and integration are issues to be tackled, such issues are to be resolved at nation state level. we oppose any calls for the eu to influence or interfere with the education and national curricula of member states. we feel particularly strongly with regard to the exploiting of eu financial instruments and mobility programmes to justify the free movement of people, all at the taxpayers’ expense.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. this report provided another dimension in which the eu’s scope could be widened in the field of education, external relations, mobility and integration, while promoting ‘eu fundamental values’. this report calls for the addition of intercultural dialogue into national curricula, eu representation within the un, and the harmonising of visa procedures, and calls for additional funding, all for the purpose of preventing radicalisation and helping integration. whilst we agree that radicalisation, extremism and integration are issues to be tackled, such issues are to be resolved at nation state level. we oppose any calls for the eu to influence or interfere with the education and national curricula of member states. we feel particularly strongly with regard to the exploiting of eu financial instruments and mobility programmes to justify the free movement of people, all at the taxpayers’ expense.
in writing. ‒ whilst i welcome some elements of this report, particularly its emphasis on the importance of education in integration, which is pertinent given recent tragic events in paris, i cannot support the report as a whole. it goes too far in promoting eu citizenship and eu representation at international level at the expense of national governments and identity. some of its proposals on member state education policies clearly infringe national sovereignty and are outside eu competences. the proposal for an eu cultural attaché to third partner countries and stronger eu representation within un agencies directly undermines national interests and risks undermining the strength of cultural diversity within europe. for all these reasons i voted against the report in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on ‘the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting eu fundamental values’ because i am convinced by the need for intercultural dialogue, especially in light of dramatic events such as the refugee crisis and the terrorist attacks in paris. this serves to further reinforce the fact that europe must tackle these common challenges and promote its fundamental values. i welcome concrete recommendations for action at a national as well as at an eu level including the increased use of culture in external actions and in the eu development agenda. through these recommendations, the report recognises the unique role that culture, inclusive learning and active citizenship can play in building strong and cohesive communities.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside other s&d meps, voted in favour of this report on the role of the intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting eu fundamental values. this report highlights the ever growing importance of the need for intercultural dialogue, especially in the light of recent event such as the refugee crisis and terrorist attacks in paris and reminds us more than ever that europe must tackle these common challenges and promote its fundamental values.
in writing. ‒ this is a debate between those who seem to think cultural diversity is a threat, and the rest of us who celebrate it. to win the argument for mutual understanding, respect, indeed celebration, we need dialogue. that is why we endorse the paris declaration commitments to prevent and tackle marginalisation, racism and radicalisation, and recognise the need for inclusive learning to promote integration. an example of this is shown by my recent visit to ‘fresh beginnings’, a refugee support centre within my own constituency in colchester. the support being given to help refugees integrate into the north essex community ranged from free english lessons to volunteers coming in to break down barriers. what i saw in colchester provides a much better lesson than what we witnessed in cologne. i have sought to support similar initiatives throughout my constituency including ‘luton in harmony’ and the stevenage world forum. so let us see more such initiatives, by supporting the concrete recommendations for action at all governmental levels, contained in today’s report. i am proud the report was written by my british labour mep colleague. she is right to conclude that this is the means to create strong and cohesive communities.
in writing. ‒ cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue are at the very heart of what the eu stands for. it is therefore not surprising that the uk tories joined with ukip and the fascists in voting against this report. the tory government at westminster, abetted by the london media, are leading the uk into an increasingly inward-looking and xenophobic mind-set. during scotland’s recent referendum we were told that independence would lead to scotland’s isolation in europe; in reality it is our continued membership of the uk which is leading to our isolation.
in writing. – i voted against this non-legislative report. this report provided another dimension in which the eu’s scope could be widened in the field of education, external relations, mobility and integration, while promoting ‘eu fundamental values’. this report calls for the addition of intercultural dialogue into national curricula, eu representation within the un, and the harmonising of visa procedures, and calls for additional funding, all for the purpose of preventing radicalisation and helping integration. whilst we agree that radicalisation, extremism and integration are issues to be tackled, such issues are to be resolved at nation state level. we oppose any calls for the eu to influence or interfere with the education and national curricula of member states. we feel particularly strongly with regard to the exploiting of eu financial instruments and mobility programmes to justify the free movement of people, all at the taxpayers’ expense.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am convinced by the growing importance of the need for intercultural dialogue, especially in the light of dramatic events such as the refugee crisis and the terrorist attacks in paris. i welcome that the report makes concrete recommendations for action at all governmental levels as well as at eu level including the increased use of culture in external actions and in the eu development agenda, recognising the unique role that culture, inclusive learning and active citizenship can play in building strong, confident, resilient and cohesive communities of the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and note the essential role of teachers in strengthening – in cooperation with families – social ties, generating a sense of belonging and helping young people to develop ethical and civic values.
in writing. ‒ together with my labour colleagues, i voted in favour of the report on ‘the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting eu fundamental values’ because i am convinced by the growing importance of the need for intercultural dialogue, especially in the light of dramatic events such as the refugee crisis and the terrorist attacks in paris which remind us more than ever that europe must tackle these common challenges and promote its fundamental values. i welcome the fact that the report identifies opportunities along with challenges and makes concrete recommendations for action at all governmental levels as well as at eu level including the increased use of culture in external actions and in the eu development agenda, recognising the unique role that culture, inclusive learning and active citizenship can play in building strong, confident, resilient and cohesive communities of the future.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. this report provided another dimension in which the eu’s scope could be widened in the field of education, external relations, mobility and integration, while promoting ‘eu fundamental values’. this report calls for the addition of intercultural dialogue into national curricula, eu representation within the un, and the harmonising of visa procedures, and calls for additional funding, all for the purpose of preventing radicalisation and helping integration. whilst we agree that radicalisation, extremism and integration are issues to be tackled, such issues are to be resolved at nation state level. we oppose any calls for the eu to influence or interfere with the education and national curricula of member states. we feel particularly strongly with regard to the exploiting of eu financial instruments and mobility programmes to justify the free movement of people, all at the taxpayers’ expense..
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's fundamental values by my colleague julie ward. the union, with its 28 member states, 24 official languages and over 500 million inhabitants, must pay particular attention to intercultural dialogue as a process of open exchange and respectful interaction between individuals, groups and organisations with different cultural backgrounds or worldviews. intercultural dialogue is not regulated by national, european or international law because it is not a legal concept but is based on international frameworks aimed at protecting human rights and cultural diversity. a good intercultural dialogue requires a good knowledge of both one's own and another's culture. the union should take into account and continue the excellent work launched in 2008, which marked the european year of intercultural dialogue, enhance the exchange of good practices and promote a new structured dialogue with all stakeholders in intercultural and interfaith issues in the context of all the recent dramatic events: european and national politicians, local and regional authorities, churches, religious associations and communities, and secular and non-confessional organisations, civil society organisations and platforms, sports, culture and education professionals, national and european youth committees, academia and the media.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. this report provided another dimension in which the eu’s scope could be widened in the field of education, external relations, mobility and integration, while promoting ‘eu fundamental values’. this report calls for the addition of intercultural dialogue into national curricula, eu representation within the un, and the harmonising of visa procedures, and calls for additional funding, all for the purpose of preventing radicalisation and helping integration. whilst we agree that radicalisation, extremism and integration are issues to be tackled, such issues are to be resolved at nation state level. we oppose any calls for the eu to influence or interfere with the education and national curricula of member states. we feel particularly strongly with regard to the exploiting of eu financial instruments and mobility programmes to justify the free movement of people, all at the taxpayers’ expense.
in writing. ‒ we do not believe in the eu interfering with the education systems of member states, particularly with regards to integration and tackling radicalisation. we oppose calls for the eu to spend taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ president, it was great to see one of my fellow labour meps have her report pass after having worked on it so hard. naturally, i voted in favour of this report, not only to support my colleague, but also because i believe that it is crucial to adopt intercultural dialogue as a strong and committed objective of the eu through interactive communication within – and between – cultures. there is a growing need for this dialogue, particularly in the light of such dramatic events as the refugee crisis and the terrorist attacks in paris. europe must tackle these common challenges and promote its fundamental values. this report identifies the potential opportunities that could be taken along with the challenges, making concrete recommendations for action at all governmental levels as well as at eu level.
in writing. ‒ together with my labour colleagues, i voted in favour of the report because i am convinced by the growing importance of the need for intercultural dialogue, especially in the light of dramatic events such as the refugee crisis and the terrorist attacks in paris which remind us more than ever that europe must tackle these common challenges and promote its fundamental values. i welcome the fact that the report identifies opportunities along with challenges and makes concrete recommendations for action at all governmental levels as well as at eu level.
in writing. ‒ together with my labour colleagues, i was proud to vote in favour of this the report ‘the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting eu fundamental values’. the rising tide of hate from both within and without europe, which has led to acts of violence in europe and increasing tensions needs to be dealt with. along with my colleagues i believe that one of the best ways to achieve this is through intercultural dialogue and increased understanding, to promote our values. it is very positive that this report not only looks at the challenges we face, but also sees opportunities in the current troubled landscape. this report also makes concrete recommendations for action at all governmental levels. the report also recognises the fact the eu needs to be robust in its use of culture as part of its external development policies.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of my report on ‘the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting eu fundamental values’ because i am convinced by the growing importance of the need for intercultural dialogue, especially in the light of dramatic events such as the refugee crisis and the terrorist attacks in paris which remind us more than ever that europe must tackle these common challenges and promote its fundamental values. my report identifies opportunities along with challenges and makes concrete recommendations for action at all governmental levels as well as at eu level, including the increased use of culture in external actions and in the eu development agenda, recognising the unique role that culture, inclusive learning and active citizenship can play in building strong, confident, resilient and cohesive communities of the future. the report was informed through extensive consultation with colleagues in parliament, academics, educators, ngos, civil society, faith groups and young people, and i would like to thank them for their invaluable input, and to encourage their use of the final document as adopted without amendment.
in writing. ‒ the eu financial services regulation will prove to be hugely damaging for the city of london. it blames the financial crisis on lack of regulation, showing a complete misunderstanding of how the financial sector operates. naturally, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for eu agencies to become more involved in international standard setting (inevitably at the expense of national regulators), accordingly ukip voted against this dilution of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for eu agencies to become more involved in international standard setting (inevitably at the expense of national regulators), accordingly ukip voted against this dilution of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report as a useful overview of legislation covering financial services: the assessment of individual legislative measures and the lack of analysis on their impact is particularly helpful. the rapporteur is quite right to identify the global competitiveness of eu legislation and the eu financial sectors as an essential challenge in financial services regulation. as a useful contribution to the debate on financial services regulation i welcome this report and am happy to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, and support the wider cmu project, especially with a view to harmonise further financial services legislation, to fill in regulatory gaps where needed, to reduce red tape and to ensure it is effective and efficient in financing the real economy and smes. we need better regulation, not deregulation, of financial services.
in writing. ‒ i, along with other s&d meps, voted in favour of this report. this report on stocktaking and the challenges of the eu financial services regulation, supports the capital markets union (cmu) project with a view to harmonising further financial services legislation, filling the regulatory gaps where needed, reducing red tape and ensuring alternative credit channels for the real economy.
in writing. ‒ whilst many in the financial services sector have spoken out against various aspects of eu regulation, in reality the events of recent years have shown the potential for catastrophe in the absence of adequate regulation. this is a well balanced report and i accordingly voted in favour.
in writing. – the report calls for eu agencies to become more involved in international standard setting (inevitably at the expense of national regulators), accordingly ukip voted against this dilution of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it contributes to the building of a better functioning financial market servicing the financial needs of the real economy by addressing loopholes, gaps, inconsistencies, incoherence and disproportionality.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, which ‘welcomes the objectives of the better regulation agenda; acknowledges the general need to examine the fitness of regulation now and in the future; however, this fitness cannot be decoupled from the functioning of the financial sector as a whole; underlines the role of refit in achieving efficient and effective financial services regulation that takes due account of the proportionality principle and in supporting the stocktaking exercise; calls for parliament to have a bigger role in the decisions and assessments intrinsic to refit; recalls that the focus must be on improving regulation, not deregulating; stresses that ensuring transparency, simplicity, accessibility and fairness across the internal market should be part of the better regulation agenda for consumers; stresses also that the eu must not create an unintended compliance burden in the drive to bring about greater harmonisation under the cmu’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a balanced report which promotes better regulation in the financial sector; however this is not a synonym for less regulation. in addition, it is important that every five years a report on the cumulative impact of the financial legislation will be produced.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for eu agencies to become more involved in international standard setting (inevitably at the expense of national regulators), accordingly ukip voted against this dilution of national sovereignty.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution by mr burkhard balz on the review of the state and challenges of financial services regulation in the eu: the way forward towards a more efficient and effective eu framework for financial regulation and towards a capital markets union and their impact. the financial crisis that emerged in 2007 and its far-reaching negative consequences were caused, inter alia, by the lack of application of appropriate financial services regulations to increasingly complex markets and products. the still ongoing crisis has led to unprecedented negative consequences, particularly for the real economy and taxpayers' money. the development of an efficient and effective financial services framework that guarantees financial stability is therefore of the utmost importance as it is a prerequisite for increasing long-term investment and stimulating growth in a competitive european economy. it is necessary to ensure that effective and efficient financial services regulation in the eu is harmonised, consistent (including on a cross-sectoral basis), proportionate, should not duplicate, is free from unnecessary complexity and is such as not to give rise to legal uncertainty, regulatory arbitrage and high transaction costs. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the number of persons who are entitled to a bank account in a member state is not the same as the number of persons who are entitled to a bank account in another member state.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for eu agencies to become more involved in international standard setting (inevitably at the expense of national regulators), accordingly ukip voted against this dilution of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because it calls for the eu agencies to become more involved in international standard setting (at the expense of national regulators).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report from the econ committee on the challenges of the eu financial services regulation. i found that this report was fairly well balanced and i’m grateful for the work that the s&d shadow rapporteur, paul tang, has done on it. while i support the better regulation package from the commission and its application in the capital markets union project, it must be said that ‘better regulation’ is not the same as ‘less regulation’. that said, this report does fill the regulatory gaps where needed and reduce red-tape, which i believe are necessary in the maintenance of a working capital markets union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which is primarily a stocktaking exercise of the financial legislation adopted during the last 5 years and a precursor to the cmu. i am particularly supportive of the call for a culture of compliance within financial organisations that puts the interest of the customers first.
mr president, i approach today’s debate and vote on promoting female entrepreneurship with a renewed sense of what is possible. in my constituency, northern ireland, we have a new, female first minister. this is not only a first for our region of the united kingdom, but also for my party, as arlene foster has now been elected leader as well. this is a huge step in the right direction. however, arlene is not a success story for those who advocate bringing change by imposing gender quotas, mainstreaming, or simply handing women opportunities as a principle in and of itself. instead, she is an example of a woman with rural roots who has worked hard and risen to where she is today on the back of hard work, and who has demonstrated ability and steely determination to succeed for those she represents. therefore, to the authors of this report my message is clear: yes, i support your aim to break down all forms of barriers to women entering the workplace; yes, i, too, want to remove obstacles to women accessing education and training, and yes, i want to give women in our society a base from which to display their entrepreneurial skills. however, i do not agree with quotas or any form of monitoring that redirects the emphasis from progress.
in writing. ‒ this demeaning report claims that women entrepreneurs are ‘being used as fronts’ by men, confess to a lack of entrepreneurial skills, lack self-confidence, assertiveness and willingness to take risks when starting a business. it suggests women entrepreneurs therefore require motivational and psychological support programmes. i find such a stereotypical characterisation of women to be the most appalling example of everyday sexism, and wonder how the european parliament could possibly pass such a patronising report given that we live in the 21st century. it will come as absolutely no surprise to anyone that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative and non-binding report. it included calls to encourage men to become more involved in the housework for example through mandatory paternity leave. it is not for any government and especially eu bureaucrats to interfere with the private lives of families, marriages and partnerships regarding who should do the housework. it included sexist assumptions that women are used as ‘fronts’ by men to get favourable financial deals; that women underrated their skills and are more likely to confess a lack of self-confidence and assertiveness and thus need psychological support programmes. ukip believes women and men are equal and the eu has no right to say women are inferior and need demeaning hand-outs. finally the report calls for the eu to spend more taxpayer’s money and bring forward more legislation. the only people that should decide any of these things are our elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative and non-binding report. it included calls to encourage men to become more involved in the housework for example through mandatory paternity leave. it is not for any government and especially eu bureaucrats to interfere with the private lives of families, marriages and partnerships regarding who should do the housework. it included sexist assumptions that women are used as ‘fronts’ by men to get favourable financial deals; that women underrated their skills and are more likely to confess a lack of self-confidence and assertiveness and thus need psychological support programmes. ukip believes women and men are equal and the eu has no right to say women are inferior and need demeaning hand-outs. finally the report calls for the eu to spend more taxpayer’s money and bring forward more legislation. the only people that should decide any of these things are our elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women. at the moment, women make up only a third of entrepreneurs, which means that there is great untapped potential. by addressing issues such as childcare provision, parental leave for the self-employed and encouraging girls to work in areas with high growth potential such as it and new technologies we can begin to bridge the entrepreneurial gender gap. this has benefits for society as a whole, with some estimates indicating that boosting female entrepreneurship could deliver as much as gbp 60 billion to the uk economy by 2030, and i was delighted to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. – in the uk, women make up just 18% of entrepreneurs. the economic advantages to encouraging and supporting more women in becoming entrepreneurs are significant. according to research, if the number of female entrepreneurs equalled that of male entrepreneurs, uk gdp could be increased by 10% by 2030. starting a business is a huge undertaking and many of the one million female entrepreneurs in the uk will testify that ‘it’s often not as straightforward a career path for women as it is for men’. the entrepreneur association suggests that the biggest barrier to women becoming entrepreneurs is confidence and mindset. this report highlighted a number of practical elements which could help women become entrepreneurs; specific skills based training; peer-to- peer support; access to childcare for women with children; and confidence that banks will treat men and women equally in their application for a start-up loan. there were a small number of elements of this report which the uk delegation was unable to support, mainly regarding social policy which we believe should be driven by national governments. overall, the uk delegation was pleased to be able to support this report.
in writing. ‒ in voting in favour of this report with my fellow s&d meps, we are working towards boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women across europe. given that women currently only account for a third of entrepreneurs, there remains a huge amount of untapped talent within the labour market. with some estimates suggesting that by boosting female entrepreneurship, as much as gbp 60 billion could be delivered into the uk economy by 2030, it is now more important than ever that we empower and nurture female entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ along with my socialist colleagues, i voted for this report which is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women. at the moment, women make up only a third of entrepreneurs. some estimates suggest increasing levels of female entrepreneurship could deliver as much as gbp 60 billion to the uk economy by 2030. we need to invest in women’s potential to contribute to new and growing sectors like the digital economy. we also need to ensure that self-employment pays well and that rights such as maternity leave are guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ women in the usa are twice as likely to be entrepreneurs as women in great britain. the alan sugar ‘you’re fired’ male boardroom culture may make good television, but for women, it doesn’t always make good business. so i conducted an open surgery, with the essex businesswomen’s network, to ask what are the barriers women have to overcome to succeed in business? some were traditional barriers to women in employment, including lack of childcare. the network was seen as invaluable to build necessary confidence. but over and over again lack of finance was cited. jaime in southend, told me she’d be denied a mortgage to open her own co-working centre. home baker sajida in st albans, hertfordshire, wanted to expand her business, but can’t afford the premises. not only do women run just one-third of businesses, but those who start a business have just one-third of the cash too. banks and other lenders must do more to support women entrepreneurs. so must europe – when eu ‘progress’ loans to small businesses are 50% more likely to go to men. women at my surgery in mark’s tey, kept saying ‘empowerment’. i support these proposals to empower women in business.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with an important issue: in my own country alone it has been estimated that the economy would be boosted by gbp 7.6 billion if there was a similar level of women-led businesses to those run by men. the scottish government has been active in supporting women’s enterprise scotland in addressing these issues and i accordingly voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – i, with my fellow meps, voted against this non legislative and non-binding report. it included calls to encourage men to become more involved in the housework for example through mandatory paternity leave. it is not for any government and especially eu bureaucrats to interfere with the private lives of families, marriages and partnerships regarding who should do the housework. it included sexist assumptions that women are used as ‘fronts’ by men to get favourable financial deals; that women underrated their skills and are more likely to confess a lack of self-confidence and assertiveness and thus need psychological support programmes. ukip believes women and men are equal and the eu has no right to say women are inferior and need demeaning hand-outs. finally the report calls for the eu to spend more taxpayer’s money and bring forward more legislation. the only people that should decide any of these things are our elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women. at the moment, women make up only a third of entrepreneurs. that is a huge amount of untapped talent. in particular, we need to invest in women’s and girls’ potential to contribute to the digital economy. some estimates suggest boosting female entrepreneurship could deliver as much as gbp 60 billion to the uk economy by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which calls on the commission to incorporate the issue of women’s entrepreneurship into its post-2015 strategy on equality between women and men.
in writing. ‒ this report is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women. at the moment, women make up only a third of entrepreneurs. that is a huge amount of untapped talent. in particular, we need to invest in women’s and girls’ potential to contribute to the digital economy. some estimates suggest boosting female entrepreneurship could deliver as much as gbp 60 billion to the uk economy by 2030.
in writing. ‒ this report is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women. at the moment, women make up only a third of entrepreneurs. that is a huge amount of untapped talent. in particular, we need to invest in women’s and girls’ potential to contribute to the digital economy. some estimates suggest boosting female entrepreneurship could deliver as much as gbp 60 billion to the uk economy by 2030.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative and non-binding report. it included calls to encourage men to become more involved in the housework for example through mandatory paternity leave. it is not for any government and especially eu bureaucrats to interfere with the private lives of families, marriages and partnerships regarding who should do the housework. it included sexist assumptions that women are used as ‘fronts’ by men to get favourable financial deals; that women underrated their skills and are more likely to confess a lack of self-confidence and assertiveness and thus need psychological support programmes. ukip believes women and men are equal and the eu has no right to say women are inferior and need demeaning hand-outs. finally the report calls for the eu to spend more taxpayer’s money and bring forward more legislation. the only people that should decide any of these things are our elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
written. ‒ i fully support the report by barbara mater on the external factors that hamper female entrepreneurship in europe. the promotion of female entrepreneurship is of particular importance; it can have a significant impact on the growth and development of the national economy. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on women's empowerment and the gender perspective. as equal economic independence is still not achieved within the european union and women's employment within the 28 countries in 2014 is only 59,6%, below the 75% target of the europe 2020 strategy, female entrepreneurship deserves special attention. it is also important to mention women's social or social entrepreneurship, which is increasingly popular in the world and aims to integrate economic and social value creation. in order to ensure that the gender perspective is fully integrated into all future entrepreneurship policies, it is essential that member states actively engage with the private sector to give prominence to gender-sensitive businesses and their best practices.
in writing. ‒ i personally strongly support more women in business. the more entrepreneurs, the better for every state. earlier this week, i visited the publication of the 'top business women' survey in my home country and was really amazed by the number of stories from czech businesswomen. that's why i supported the report. but i couldn't vote for things like pushing for gender quotas in business promotion or calling for men to do more housework. such proposals do not help women entrepreneurs at all.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative and non-binding report. it included calls to encourage men to become more involved in the housework, for example, through mandatory paternity leave. it is not for any government and especially eu bureaucrats to interfere with the private lives of families, marriages and partnerships regarding who should do the housework. it included sexist assumptions that women are used as ‘fronts’ by men to get favourable financial deals; that women underrated their skills and are more likely to confess a lack of self-confidence and assertiveness and thus need psychological support programmes. ukip believes women and men are equal and the eu has no right to say women are inferior and need demeaning hand-outs. finally the report calls for the eu to spend more taxpayer’s money and bring forward more legislation. the only people that should decide any of these things are our elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because this crazy report calls on various things such as ‘men to become more involved in house work’. this is in my opinion an anti-men report and does nothing to further real gender equality. in fact it harms it by masking gender tokenism as gender equality. i will never vote in favour of quotas. merit should be the only factor in employment.
in writing. ‒ female entrepreneurs have a massive amount of untapped potential, and systemic sexism is not helping address the fact that the eu still lags behind with an entrepreneurial rate of just 12%. i believe that particular attention needs to be given to female entrepreneurs: the employment rate of women in the eu is not reaching the eu 2020 target of 75% (it is currently less than 60%). if we are truly committed to seeing equality between the genders, this is not acceptable and this report addresses the challenges and hurdles that are ahead in this goal, and more specifically in relation to achieving a higher female entrepreneurship rate. this is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women. at the moment, women make up only a third of entrepreneurs. that is a huge amount of untapped talent. in particular, we need to invest in women’s and girls’ potential to contribute to the digital economy. some estimates suggest boosting female entrepreneurship could deliver as much as gbp 60 billion to the uk economy by 2030.
in writing. ‒ this report is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women. at the moment, women make up only a third of entrepreneurs; that represents a huge amount of untapped talent. in particular, we need to invest in women’s and girls’ potential to contribute to the digital economy. some estimates suggest that boosting female entrepreneurship could deliver as much as gbp 60 billion to the uk economy by 2030. entrepreneurship education and women’s mentorship networks have the potential to overcome gender stereotypes and provide positive role models for girls and young women, especially for those in marginalised and vulnerable communities. having been involved in successful social entrepreneurship prior to my parliamentary life, i particularly wanted to highlight the important role that social enterprise and alternative business models, such as mutuals and cooperatives, can play in overcoming the obstacles that women face.
mr president, i welcome the attention given in this report to a cross-cutting approach to tackling youth unemployment, which has at its heart a focus on building a skills base. as a starting point we must recognise that the barriers facing different young people are very diverse, and therefore it is necessary to create synergies within all aspects of government, the community and business in order to maximise the transition from inactivity to opportunity. this report rightly illustrates that this overarching network should include businesses, with a particular focus on smes, statutory education providers and those based in the community, public career services and key relationships between the public and private sectors. of course, we cannot ignore the expected intrusions into national competence that this report makes. however, the goal of giving young people a true stake in society is one that in the main its authors get right. the esf programme has a vital role to play in maximising the work of voluntary organisations who engage with disaffected young people. however, in northern ireland the implementation of this fund has been beset by red tape and restrictions.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report overall because it is largely positive and calls for increased support for young people in skills development and gaining employment, including increased public investment in education in general and in school-to-work transition in particular. this report has particular relevance for ireland where the youth unemployment rate is almost 20%. however, i voted against aspects within the report that i believe are problematic, particularly where it calls for closer links between educational and vocational training institutions with industry in order to address the skills mismatch, because my view is that education should be provided entirely independent of industry. during negotiations on this file in the employment and social affairs committee sinn féin mep lynn boylan successfully inserted a call for the removal of ‘barriers such as education fees for apprentices’ in the text with the support of most groups – including the epp, which fine gael is part of. this was the most important aspect of the report because it is such an important issue in ireland where the fine gael/labour government have implemented education fees for apprentices.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes opening up british jobs as a matter of course to continental workers through eures. at a time of high unemployment in the uk, particularly in my constituency of north east england which has the highest unemployment anywhere in the uk, this is clearly contrary to the interests of my constituents. given that the majority of such positions are unskilled or semi-skilled jobs, and that the greatest shortage of jobs in my constituency lies in such sectors, the problem is far worse in the north east than elsewhere. in terms of wage compression, it is almost certain that the situation specifically in the north east must be far worse than the 1.88% drop in wages in such sectors which has recently been documented by the bank of england. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative and non-binding report. the report called for the eu to spend more money to spread information on european financing instruments. ukip opposes the eu spending taxpayer’s money especially to put out such propaganda. there was a call to create an eu award for the best project that combats youth employment – this would be a complete waste of money and nothing more than a vanity project for the eu. it called for member states to follow eu country-specific recommendations. it also wanted the eu to interfere with member states’ education and national curriculum, suggesting what subjects should be taught – the eu has no competence in this area. it also called for more money and support for mobility programmes such as erasmus which advertises british jobs across the eu. ukip is the only party against open door immigration and will protect british jobs. the only people that should decide any of these things are our elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative and non-binding report. the report called for the eu to spend more money to spread information on european financing instruments. ukip opposes the eu spending taxpayer’s money especially to put out such propaganda. there was a call to create an eu award for the best project that combats youth employment – this would be a complete waste of money and nothing more than a vanity project for the eu. it called for member states to follow eu country-specific recommendations. it also wanted the eu to interfere with member states’ education and national curriculum, suggesting what subjects should be taught – the eu has no competence in this area. it also called for more money and support for mobility programmes such as erasmus which advertises british jobs across the eu. ukip is the only party against open door immigration and will protect british jobs. the only people that should decide any of these things are our elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ this report recognises that due to high levels of youth unemployment in many parts of europe innovative measures need to be taken to bridge the growing skills mismatch, something which the uk government has recognised since 2010. i welcome this report’s call for promotion of best practices and its support for the inclusion of young people with disabilities in education and employment. importantly this report also clearly recognises the principle of subsidiarity. for all of these reasons i am happy to support this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as youth unemployment risks creating a lost generation. it is simply vital that young people have access to the required skills in today’s labour market. however, the uk government needs to boost jobs, growth and investment to ensure that there are quality, stable jobs for young people.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside my fellow labour meps, voted in favour of the report on skills policies for fighting youth unemployment. across europe some 4.5 million young people find themselves unemployed. in the north west the figure stands at 68 000, that is 13% of all young people in our region, unable to find work. it is now more important than ever that we tackle this issue head on. in supporting the report, we have outlined our plan to support young people into the workplace. the report provides a wide ranging framework for getting our young people into work; through strengthened partnerships between educational institutes and local employers, to improving the quality of career guidance in schools.
in writing. ‒ labour meps supported this report as it is critical that young people have access to the required skills for the labour market. the uk government should also be focusing on measures to boost jobs, growth and investment to ensure that there are quality jobs for young people.
in writing. ‒ in my constituency, the east of england director of construction company rg carter has said we face a ‘skills crisis’. the royal institution of chartered surveyors found 70% of my region’s builders could not find available workers. it’s ironic that at the same time the east of england has some 50 000 young people unemployed, the recruitment firm cooper lomaz said last month our companies face skill shortages not just in construction, but in accountancy, food manufacturing, engineering, oil, gas and renewables, sales and marketing and it too. the only answer is to offer high-quality traineeships and apprenticeships. i back today’s report rightly calling for better skills forecasting in the labour market, strengthened co-ordination between education institutions and local employers, and improved schools career guidance. i call for key eu tools such as erasmus+ and the youth employment initiative to be maximised in the east of england in particular. finally young people are more vulnerable to exploitation, including being forced into precarious work. as a labour mep, i believe that if you work regular hours, you should have a regular contract, and that is why we are working to end exploitative zero-hours contracts not just in britain, but across the eu.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis of recent years has had a particularly detrimental effect on youth employment in many areas of the eu. this is a welcome report and it is essential that efforts are made to address unemployment amongst young people. in my own country the scottish government has invested in an ambitious youth employment strategy and this has contributed to the highest levels of youth employment in a decade.
in writing. – i voted against this non legislative and non-binding report. the report called for the eu to spend more money to spread information on european financing instruments. ukip opposes the eu spending taxpayer’s money especially to put out such propaganda. there was a call to create an eu award for the best project that combats youth employment – this would be a complete waste of money and nothing more than a vanity project for the eu. it called for member states to follow eu country-specific recommendations. it also wanted the eu to interfere with member states’ education and national curriculum, suggesting what subjects should be taught – the eu has no competence in this area. it also called for more money and support for mobility programmes such as erasmus which advertises british jobs across the eu. ukip is the only party against open door immigration and will protect british jobs. the only people that should decide any of these things are our elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it is critical that young people have access to the required skilled in today’s labour market. however, the uk government needs to boost jobs, growth and investment to ensure that there are quality jobs for young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which ‘stresses that “a new boost to jobs, growth and investment” is an essential priority of the commission and that in its work programme for 2015, the commission committed to taking practical initiatives to promote integration and employability in the labour market, particularly measures to support member states in getting young people into work; reiterates that parliament has regularly proposed different solutions stressing that youth employment, education and training should be one of the highest political priorities for the eu’.
in writing. ‒ labour meps supported this report as it is critical that young people have access to the required skilled in today’s labour market. however, the uk government needs to boost jobs, growth and investment to ensure that there are quality jobs for young people.
in writing. ‒ labour meps supported this report as it is critical that young people have access to the required skilled in today’s labour market. however, the uk government needs to boost jobs, growth and investment to ensure that there are quality jobs for young people.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative and non-binding report. the report called for the eu to spend more money to spread information on european financing instruments. ukip opposes the eu spending taxpayer’s money especially to put out such propaganda. there was a call to create an eu award for the best project that combats youth employment – this would be a complete waste of money and nothing more than a vanity project for the eu. it called for member states to follow eu country-specific recommendations. it also wanted the eu to interfere with member states’ education and national curriculum, suggesting what subjects should be taught – the eu has no competence in this area. it also called for more money and support for mobility programmes such as erasmus which advertises british jobs across the eu. ukip is the only party against open door immigration and will protect british jobs. the only people that should decide any of these things are our elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on a policy to develop skills to combat youth unemployment by my colleague marek plur. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the measures in force. croatia is particularly hard hit by this problem as it is among the top three eu member states for youth unemployment with as much as 45%. the youth employment crisis cannot be solved without the effective and sustainable creation of quality jobs in europe. in addition, the lack of relevant skills (e.g. science, technology, engineering and mathematics skills) for the 2 million jobs available and the mismatch between education and training are important factors leading to unemployment problems. despite being more educated and more skilled than previous generations, young people continue to face significant structural barriers to finding quality employment that meets union and national standards. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken by member states on the employment situation of women and men in the union, in particular by providing information on the impact of the measures taken by member states on women and men in the union.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative and non-binding report. the report called for the eu to spend more money to spread information on european financing instruments. ukip opposes the eu spending taxpayer’s money especially to put out such propaganda. there was a call to create an eu award for the best project that combats youth employment – this would be a complete waste of money and nothing more than a vanity project for the eu. it called for member states to follow eu country-specific recommendations. it also wanted the eu to interfere with member states’ education and national curriculum, suggesting what subjects should be taught – the eu has no competence in this area. it also called for more money and support for mobility programmes such as erasmus which advertises british jobs across the eu. ukip is the only party against open door immigration and will protect british jobs. the only people that should decide any of these things are our elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for greater financial resources to be used to spread information on european financing instruments. this is more commission interference that i cannot support.
in writing. ‒ today i joined my labour colleagues in supporting this report as it is incredibly crucial that young people have access to the required skills in today’s labour market. tackling youth unemployment should be a top priority if europe does not want to risk losing the potential of a whole generation. a first step must be to strengthen and implement properly the youth guarantee as well as the youth employment initiative. it is fundamental to improve the positive long-term benefits of the opportunities offered to young people through meaningful training programmes and job placements. the uk government needs to boost jobs, growth and investment to ensure that there are quality jobs for young people in the near future.
in writing. ‒ labour meps supported this report as it is critical that young people have access to the required skilled in today’s labour market. however, the uk government needs to boost jobs, growth and investment to ensure that there are quality jobs for young people.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote with my labour colleagues in supporting this report. youth unemployment and the issues surrounding young people who are neither in education nor training are factors across the eu. therefore, it is useful that parliament is helping to develop a strategy to combat youth unemployment with this document. labour meps supported this report as it is critical that young people have access to the required skilled in today’s labour market. however, the uk government needs to boost jobs, growth and investment to ensure that there are quality jobs for young people. this report’s stress on identifying key skills that will be needed in the current and future market is highly important, as is its emphasis on the need for high—quality apprentices.
in writing. ‒ together with my labour colleagues, i supported this report as it is critical that young people have access to developing relevant skills for today’s labour market. however, the uk government needs to boost jobs, sustainable growth and investment to ensure that there are quality jobs for young people. i also want to recall the need to promote curriculum objectives for formal and non-formal education, as well as lifelong learning, targeting all students – both theoretical modules and practical modules, such as student enterprise, including social enterprise projects, working with local communities.
in writing. ‒ labour meps supported this report as it is critical that young people have access to the required skills in today’s labour market. the report includes proposals to strengthen co-ordination between education institutions and local employers, improve the quality of career guidance at schools and calling for protection for trainees and apprentices. however, the uk government needs to boost growth and investment to ensure that there are quality jobs for young people.
in writing. – as far as i can see, the commission’s plans are still not sufficient to guarantee equal access for all to the digital single market. many new technologies that can be introduced through the digital single market can be of huge benefit to all citizens across the eu including in ireland. it is my view that parliament should make sure that these technologies do benefit all of our citizens – that we don’t just put money into the coffers of massive companies. my colleagues in gue/ngl tabled amendments in several committees while this report was being negotiated, focused mainly on users’ trust in digital services, data protection, digital workers’ rights and respecting the principle of net neutrality. these amendments would have significantly improved the report but they were rejected by other groups, which is why i could not support the overall report.
in writing. ‒ european union regulations are already costing jobs in my constituency. i recently visited a business which has stopped selling to other european countries, but continues to trade with the rest of the world, thanks to such regulations. the geo-blocking proposals and moves towards a digital single market are dangerous precisely because free trade will continue to be undermined. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted to reject this report. the report calls for greater eu harmonisation and the instigation of eu legislation that will alter member states’ taxation, internet, data sharing and e-commerce policies. ukip vehemently disagrees with aspects of the text that support the continuation of the vat moss regime as we believe this has been extremely harmful to uk businesses particularly small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted to reject this report. the report calls for greater eu harmonisation and the instigation of eu legislation that will alter member states’ taxation, internet, data sharing and e-commerce policies. ukip vehemently disagrees with aspects of the text that support the continuation of the vat moss regime as we believe this has been extremely harmful to uk businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report as a positive step forward for consumers and the digital industry. we need ambitious actions to complete europe’s digital single market, particularly addressing e-skills for young people, and removing artificial barriers to the development of the collaborative economy. we need a legislative landscape that is innovation-friendly and fosters entrepreneurship. finally, although i support most of the content of this report, i do want to emphasise that i did not support a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), harmonisation of spectrum allocation or extending the scope of the audiovisual media services (avms) directive to include online platforms, and my group requested that these be put to the vote separately to show our opposition to these ideas, which risk undermining the very innovation the digital single market is supporting.
in writing. ‒ on behalf of uk conservative meps, we support the calls within this report for ambitious, targeted actions to complete europe’s digital single market, including an end to unjustified geo-blocking practices, promotion of e-skills for young people, and an e-government action plan in public administrations. furthermore we welcome the calls for the commission and member states to support the further development of the sharing economy and an innovation-friendly policy towards online platforms. finally we believe the approach to copyright and portability included in the final report is well balanced. however, we strongly oppose the endorsement of the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), which is not relevant to the dsm and has no place in this report, and we will continue to oppose its introduction. in addition we do not support the harmonisation of spectrum allocation, whilst we do recognise the benefits of increased coordination, nor do we support extending the scope of the audiovisual media services (avms) directive to include online platforms as called for in the report. these votes were all roll-called. despite these reservations, conservatives voted in favour of the report given our strong support for the digital single market and the significant opportunities it brings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the digital single market (dsm), a response to the european commission's communication on the dsm, which focused on business to customer online purchasing, transactions, and cross border parcel delivery. the report calls on the commission to press on with the completion of a europe-wide digital single market, with emphasis on the need for everyone to have the right to access the internet and use online services, and ensuring superfast broadband is accessible to everyone. labour meps tabled a number of amendments to address the gaps on social and employment issues, digital skills, public investment and universal access and coverage, and are pleased with the report, but more work needs to be done. the digital single market is a great example of how british consumers benefit from membership of the eu – indeed only last month, the commission unveiled proposals that will allow travellers to watch iplayer, netflix and other digital content while abroad.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour party colleagues i voted in favour of this report calling for a fairer digital single market in the eu. labour meps tabled a number of amendments to address the gaps on social and employment issues, digital skills, public investment and universal access and coverage, and are pleased with the report, but more work needs to be done. the digital single market is a great example of how british consumers benefit from membership of the eu – indeed only last month, the commission unveiled proposals that will allow travellers to watch iplayer, netflix and other digital content while abroad.
in writing. ‒ i supported this wide-ranging report which represents a reasonable compromise. my own group has been instrumental in promoting the text supporting the use of open source software by public administrations and i am pleased that this is included in the final text.
in writing. – i, with my colleagues, have voted to reject this report. the report calls for greater eu harmonisation and the instigation of eu legislation that will alter member states’ taxation, internet, data sharing and e-commerce policies. ukip vehemently disagrees with aspects of the text that support the continuation of the vat moss regime as we believe this has been extremely harmful to uk businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. labour meps are protecting the rights of workers in the new online economy, and calling for everyone to have the right to access the internet and use online services, be they young, old, disabled or isolated.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and note with alarm that 44.8% of households in the eu do not have access to fast internet, and that current policies and incentives have failed to deliver adequate digital infrastructure, particularly in rural areas.
in writing. ‒ today’s vote is a welcome step towards deepening and expanding the single market. a strong digital single market brings large benefits for smes, consumers and to technology start-ups. crucially i welcome the prominent role and appreciation given to intellectual property rights here. whilst the digital single market is beneficial to consumers, i am pleased to see there is recognition of the work and creativity behind these products and services, and it has steered clear of upsetting business models that currently function effectively. however, i am wary of the direction and instruction this report gives to the avms review prior to the completion of the commission’s refit exercise. elements of the text, for example, risk chipping away at the country-of-origin principle, which would damage the very core of a directive that currently functions well for all; any move towards a country-of-destination approach is a slippery slope that we must remain alert to, particularly when we have yet to see the evidence on which to base this. the outcome of the vote is a positive step for the internal market, for consumers and for smes but we must remain cautious of how it is shaped in actual legislation.
in writing. ‒ the digital single market is a great example of how british consumers benefit from membership of the eu – indeed, only last month the commission unveiled proposals that will allow travellers to watch iplayer, netflix and other digital content while abroad. we also need to ensure the digital economy does not leave behind people in certain workplaces, and in rural or remote communities. all eu countries, including the uk, must invest more in superfast broadband, and roll it out quicker and wider. our future lies in being a knowledge economy. i am pleased we are taking steps at an eu level to deliver this; i hope the uk government is taking note.
in writing. ‒ labour is protecting the rights of workers in the new online economy, and calling for everyone to have the right to access the internet and use online services, be they young, old, disabled or isolated.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted to reject this report. the report calls for greater eu harmonisation and the instigation of eu legislation that will alter member states’ taxation, internet, data sharing and e-commerce policies. ukip vehemently disagrees with aspects of the text that support the continuation of the vat moss regime as we believe this has been extremely harmful to uk businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises.
written. ‒ i agree with the report by meps kaja kallas and evelyne gebhardt on the subject on the digital single market act. the report focuses on one of the most important pillars of president juncker's programme for this commission. the report is comprehensive and covers, inter alia, rules on e-commerce, cross-border parcel delivery, geo-blocking, copyright protection, value added tax administration, telecommunications framework, audiovisual media, platforms and the role of intermediaries, data protection, e-government, opportunities for increased growth and competition such as big data, standardisation, research and e-capacity. digital technology, which knows no borders, offers us a range of possibilities, and it is up to us to take full advantage of the great opportunities it offers. to do so requires having the courage to overcome national barriers in the areas of telecommunications regulation, copyright and data protection regulations, enforcement of competition rules and much more. the commission should also be able to use the existing instruments to support the implementation of the union's policy on employment and social inclusion, including the european social fund, the european regional development fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund. such a single market would certainly contribute to the creation of a dynamic knowledge-based society. it is important to note that such a market would greatly enhance the world economy which is digitizing at lightning speed.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted to reject this report. the report calls for greater eu harmonisation and the instigation of eu legislation that will alter member states’ taxation, internet, data sharing and e-commerce policies. ukip vehemently disagrees with aspects of the text that support the continuation of the vat moss regime as we believe this has been extremely harmful to uk businesses; particularly small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution – this calls for more commission interference within our market which i am against.
in writing. ‒ in order to protect the rights of workers in the new online economy i voted in favour of this report calling for everyone to have a right of access to the internet and to be able to use online services without discrimination. the commission's proposal rests on three pillars: firstly, 'better access for consumers and businesses across europe to digital services'; secondly, the creation of 'the right conditions and a level playing field for advanced digital networks and innovative services'; and thirdly, the maximisation of the growth potential of the digital economy. i was especially glad to see that the socialists and democrats group were able to have those involved in the parcel delivery and logistics sector included in the text as well as recognition of the rights of those working in the new and growing sharing economy. we need better provisions for data protection and proper investment in the infrastructure of the digital economy.
in writing. ‒ labour is protecting the rights of workers in the new online economy, and calling for everyone to have the right to access the internet and use online services, be they young, old, disabled or isolated.
in writing. ‒ i support the calls within this report for ambitious, targeted actions to complete europe’s digital single market, including an end to unjustified geo-blocking practices, promotion of e-skills for young people, and an e-government action plan in public administrations. furthermore we welcome the calls for the commission and member states to support the further development of the sharing economy and an innovation-friendly policy towards online platforms. finally, i believe the approach to copyright and portability included in the final report is well balanced. however, i strongly oppose the endorsement of the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), which is not relevant to the dsm and has no place in this report, and the conservative delegation and the ecr group will continue to oppose its introduction. in addition we do not support the harmonisation of spectrum allocation, whilst we do recognise the benefits of increased coordination, nor do we support extending the scope of the audiovisual media services (avms) directive to include online platforms as called for in the report. these votes were all roll called. despite these reservations, i voted in favour of the report given our strong support for the digital single market and the significant opportunities it brings.
in writing. ‒ i and my labour colleagues are protecting the rights of workers and businesses in the new online economy, and calling for everyone to have the right to access the internet and use online services, be they young, old, disabled or isolated. the internet is a valuable resource for the whole community that is revolutionising the way that we operate; we cannot afford to either stifle online entrepreneurship or allow it to be compromised by business interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that calls for protecting the rights of workers in the new online economy, and for everyone to have the right to access the internet and use online services, be they young, old, disabled or isolated. the internet is a common good for humanity and ensuring its good governance will help bring its benefits to all people in the world. i believe europe has much to contribute to ensure a shared governance of the internet is based on clear, fair, inclusive and transparent rules. my views on this are informed by my active involvement with the european internet foundation and by my attendance at the internet governance forum in brazil, in november 2015.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, too often the european union seems more concerned with finding a role for itself, with institutional self-preservation and driving forward political integration. it tries to do too much and ends up doing little or making things worse. in fact, many other problems – economic, political, security – are consequences of the eu’s own policies. we welcome the support of other governments and sensible members of this house for the reforms sought by the british prime minister. the opportunity for change should be grasped enthusiastically. meps should be the first to recognise that the citizens of our countries do not want ever closer union. they want national governments responsible to them for their actions. they want a european union that costs less and which spends its resources more effectively. they want an eu that cuts red tape and removes barriers to trade and competitiveness and which moves rapidly to conclude free trade agreements with countries such as india and our transatlantic partners. they certainly do not want the whole nature of our countries changed by the massive uncontrolled influx of people from other cultures, and clearly our countries should be able to adjust their benefit systems as necessary and should be given greater flexibility in the scope and duration of suspending eu rules for public policy or national security reasons. we should recognise how sensible david cameron’s policy towards refugees has been, dealing with the problem at source, helping those in the refugee camps and accepting limited numbers of the most vulnerable. perhaps the commission should be looking at ways to reduce the pull factors and reviewing the limitations imposed by international laws such as the refugee convention and echr and, as mr weber said, most refugees do not come from syria. terrorism is a separate matter from migration, although not entirely unrelated. we welcome the pnr agreement. this is an important breakthrough, but we still need to go further. much of the cooperation that people want is best done between our national police and security agencies.
blue-card question.– mr verhofstadt, you and i come from completely different points of view, but i always enjoy listening to you and i always respect what you say because in what you say there is a very clear, honest and logical policy. it just happens to be totally different from what i believe in. you actually do believe in closer integration, politically and economically and you know what the real meaning of ever closer union of the peoples of europe means, and i respect that. the people i do not respect are the people on my own side who pretend not to know what it means or that it is not happening. may i ask you a question, and extend you an invitation? when we have our referendum in britain, will you please come and argue for the ‘stay in’ side so that we can have an absolutely honest and clear debate?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i am looking forward to guy verhofstadt, the liberal group leader, coming to the united kingdom to take part in the brexit debate. his passionate defence of a united states of europe and a european army is, i know, sincerely held, and i am sure that the liberal democrats will be delighted. (laughter) it has now been a month since the last european summit. i don’t know about a week being a long time in politics, but there has been a sea change in that month and i think that one event has woken people up to the folly of eu leaders: the juncker common asylum plan, the merkel call which led to a stampede. those of us who have warned that unlimited numbers of people from different cultures without security checks would pose a threat to the cohesion of our societies were roundly abused for doing so. and then we came to new year’s eve: munich, the main train station closed down because of a terrorist threat, the intelligence coming from syria and iraq. the very same train station that in september people had stood at holding up their placards: ‘refugees welcome’. that irony was not lost on me. but it is what happened in cologne – where we saw the mob, up to a thousand young males in the street, sexually assaulting and harassing women – which is, i think in many ways, one of the most disgraceful public order events that we have seen in modern—day europe. and yet there was an attempt by the police and the press to cover it all up, and even the suggestion from some german politicians that german young women should change their dress and their mode of behaviour in the street, which i thought was a total insult. there is even a name for these assaults in egypt, because they have now become commonplace and part of everyday life. we ought to have the courage to send out a message to say these assaults must never be acceptable in any european town or city and we will do our damndest to make sure that it never happens again. (applause) when we go to the next european summit, where mr cameron is going to conclude his renegotiation, i have no doubt there will be a compromise on the fairly minor issue of migrant benefits and i have no doubt that he will come back from that summit with a few promissory notes for the future about britain’s relationship. but what he is not going to be talking about is our ability to get back control of our borders, and the british people know that those young men in cologne, in a few years’ time, will have eu passports and be free to come to britain. to give you an idea of how big the sea change has been. daily telegraph commentator allison pearson, who had said she was undecided on brexit because she did not have enough information, wrote this the other day: ʻafter cologne, the eu referendum is about nothing less than the safety and security of british women. we, the euroclueless, need to woman up and vote for the right of our daughters and granddaughters to live as they choose and to smile in the street. no more mrs don’t know – let’s get the hell out.’ i hope 2016 is our year of deliverance. (applause)
mr president, is this reasonable behaviour? we have had it more than once from this gentleman. surely we should all be equal in this chamber and treated fairly and with decency and courtesy and respect. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, in december the rapes and sexual assaults and the sexual harassment of women were off the agenda and, at the germans’ request, the subject is off the agenda this week, too. in towns across europe, all liberal, tolerant societies are turning against the mass influx of migrants. in germany, transgender women are stoned. in sweden, schoolgirls are sexually assaulted at a music event. in austria, girls are assaulted at school. and barbarians are sending their migrants on buses to mrs merkel who then sends them back again. that is unfair to genuine asylum seekers. german colleagues, angela merkel welcomed 800 000 – now you have 1.2 million. you give them passports. they bring their families. that is potentially 10 million extra. then they can take those passports and their families and move to the uk. that is the size of my constituency in the south-east, and the czech republic. so how do we deal with this? we build more camps. we house them in the middle east, in north africa, and we support them, and eventually they may go back, because this is a clash of civilisations and when that happens, we know where that can lead.
madam president, it makes my heart sink that, once again, here we are discussing a problem of david cameron’s making, rather than the real challenges facing the eu. i am sure the eu leaders at the december council felt the same. but it is important that a deal is done; that is not because i am backing cameron’s negotiations – his priorities are not my priorities. for example, where are the proposals to end loopholes in working rights legislation that are used by exploitative employers to undercut terms and conditions? we can take heart that some of the more damaging proposals originally floated are no longer on the table. anti-europeans on the right were pushing for an attack on eu legislation on working rights – a move that would have undermined the direct benefits that working people see from our eu membership. that these subjects are no longer under discussion will help us to make the case for britain’s continuing membership of the eu, because this referendum is going to be about working people: the part-time check-out assistant who gets equal rights because we are in the eu; the factory worker for whom health and safety is not red tape, but a matter of life and death; the workers in companies large and small, whose businesses depend directly or indirectly on trade with europe. for all these people, for all working people, there are no circumstances under which they would be better off outside the eu. that is why we need to see a deal done and a deal done soon, because only then can we get on with a british referendum and put an end to the uncertainty that is bad for britain and bad for europe.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, as we assembled here this afternoon i could sense meps chomping at the bit to lay into the polish government. but before you unleash a volley of words, let me make a plea for everyone to take a step back, to allow the european commission and the venice commission of the council of europe to work with the polish government to address the concerns that have been expressed. having spoken to polish meps, ministers and the prime minister earlier today, it is clear that they have no intention of undermining pluralism and the rule of law. when the last government passed a law to stuff the constitutional court with their nominees before they left office, why is it that the commission did not open an investigation, or meps here did not complain? why the sudden complaints when the new government seeks to appoint only five out of 15 judges on a constitutional court? we should welcome the constructive talks that president duda has held with the court’s president. we should welcome the polish government inviting the venice commission to give its opinion. we should welcome the new government’s separation between the regulator and the broadcaster. but when the new government tries to bring its practices in line with other countries and eu law, it is accused of political interference in the media. now when i worked on the audiovisual media services directive, i was shocked by the number of meps from one large member state who sat on the boards of public broadcasters and who were interfering in legislation, ignoring the obvious conflict of interest. in this chamber, there are former national politicians who would phone editors of newspapers, or tv stations, complaining and leading some of them to be sacked. so, if you decide to gang up today on the democratically elected government of poland, you would also be pointing fingers at the people who voted for that government. and do not be surprised if the polish people respond by electing more eurosceptic politicians, as in hungary, italy and france. so in this climate, i would appeal everyone to be careful about their choice of words. when mr berlusconi came to this parliament and made comments linking mr schulz to germany’s national socialist past, many here were offended. so i ask you to consider your reaction when a german politician goes on the media to talk about elements of a coup in poland and compares the polish government to vladimir putin. you must realise just how offensive this is to the polish people, who had to endure russian imperialism, who had to endure german national socialism, and who had to endure soviet socialism. so let us, in this house, focus on the real crises facing the eu: migration, the eurozone and low growth. and let us allow the polish government to work constructively with the european commission and the venice commission to reach conclusions based on facts and fairness. given the historic suffering of the polish people at the hands of tyranny, and their noble fight for liberation from their oppressors, i have no doubt that the new polish government will cooperate with all those who wish to cooperate with them to ensure that poland reinforces the freedom, the pluralism and the democracy for which the polish people fought for so long. (applause)
prime minister of poland. the opinion of the venice commission we are still waiting for it. i would like to remind you of what i have already said: the polish government itself asked the venice commission for an opinion. we didn't have to be encouraged to do it. we'll be watching her closely, of course, waiting for her. i think it would be much easier for us to use arguments to avoid this debate on poland today if we already had this opinion, because i believe deeply that it will be an opinion that objectively shows that the legal situation of the constitutional court in poland is perfect. we have not changed the rules of election of the constitutional court. the previous parliament also elected the constitutional court: two-thirds of the 15 are ten it is difficult for the group of 15 to block the ten. i think that's clear. i'm presenting the arguments, i want to present them, although i think - and i'll stress this again - i think this debate is completely unnecessary. but i am here because i respect that the european parliament is concerned and - i hope - objectively willing to look at this problem. ladies and gentlemen! i will not address remarks which i consider offensive and which i believe should not be made in this house. that is my sense of dignity as a citizen of the european union. we are not a nationalist party and i find such language offensive. i'm not gonna comment on them. but, ladies and gentlemen, i will say it again: the polish government was elected in democratic elections by the polish citizens and the polish government today governs the polish state by the gift, by the mandate of the sovereign, that is, the citizens. and it's not that the polish government is something other than poland, than our homeland. this is the democratic elections in your countries too. i can't imagine myself saying that i don't respect the spanish or dutch government, but i respect the netherlands or spain. no, you can't! i respect the government of the nation i respect and the countries i respect. i may disagree with you, but it's our law. this is the foundation and the foundation of europe, that we have different opinions, we have different opinions, very often we disagree, but we discuss. and this is the great value that for me, for my citizens, for our citizens, for poland is extremely important. because we, ladies and gentlemen, have not had the right to debate for decades. you talk about justice and equality, and i'm very happy about that. i believe that the european union will look with concern at the polish economy. there was talk of silesia. i live near silesia, i can actually say that i feel very strongly connected to this land, i am from lesser poland, but i live on the border of silesia and lesser poland. silesia is a great region, silesia is a great people, but silesia needs the help of the european union today. please show solidarity with silesia, help the polish mines. this is a big problem for us. today, silesian people ask me: will the european union bend over our problems, will it see that we need this help today, or will it leave us as it once left the polish shipyards? excuse me, but such questions and such bitterness are also in poland. we translate, we talk and we want the poles to feel that the european union is always there for them when they need it. and that is why i am here today, because i believe in the european union, i believe in europe, i believe in the civil society that you speak so much about here. and i have to say that my government has appointed a civil society commissioner because we take this issue very seriously. we have a civil society commissioner (this was not the case in the previous government), and i strongly believe that the good example of poland, also in building civil society and we have great examples from our history, we have the rise of solidarity, we have everything that poland has brought to europe that this is the foundation on which we will be able to build a common europe of equal, sovereign states. let us, in accordance with the will of the polish people, implement our program, let us govern, let us show that poland is a country that takes the law, the constitution, and the european union very seriously. i'm european, and i'm proud of it, but first of all i'm polish and i'm proud of it.
prime minister of poland. i don't have a problem with translation. i understand that you are curious because you want to know polish affairs very well, and i thank the president that we are breaking the rules of procedure a little, but i am very glad because i have travelled many kilometres, hundreds of kilometres, to come here to give you a full answer and to dispel any doubts. i have no difficulty understanding you. i feel like maybe we need to listen to each other, hear what we're saying to each other and try to understand each other. the worst thing is to build opinions based on stereotypes instead of facts, so let's talk about facts. that opinion hasn't been issued yet. i'm sure that this opinion, which we're waiting for, if it comes out, will be given very careful consideration by us.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, this was a very important but also sensitive debate. i think it was very clear from the exchanges we have heard, also in the last minute. but i nevertheless think it was a very important debate. all of us, all of you, have spoken on the importance of the rule of law as a founding stone for our cooperation, with very, very few exceptions, if any. first of all, that is a positive sign, but we all realise when we talk about the rule of law it obviously becomes very quickly not only a legal issue, but also a political issue, and that is understandable. it is an issue about sovereignty issues, about institutional balances, about political choices. yes, the debate on the rule of law is therefore intrinsically also political and it is therefore important that you discuss it here today in the parliament. all of you have made clear that nobody is holy. we have to exclude double standards. we have a task in front of all of us. it is not just finger—pointing, it is ensuring that all of us in a very difficult time of the european union look at our own foundations for the rule of law. i speak here on behalf of the council of ministers. we have not met on this yet, but i have tried to assure you that on the side of the council, the rule of law is key and we have agreed on a few areas. one is the issue of the new mechanism that the commission and the council have established. it is an annual dialogue on the rule of law, and the commission adopted a rule of law framework in march 2014. it is important to work now with this new mechanism and a question was raised to me, to what extent we would go in a strengthened or other mechanism. i have not seen an approved proposal yet from the side of the european parliament; we will obviously have to look at it if that comes. we have a mechanism right now, and you see that it is important to start working on it with full respect and dialogue between all of us from the different institutions. in that sense, i would say on behalf of the presidency that we are committed, as you know, to assuring the respect for the core values of our union. the commission is currently making an analysis of the facts, it is in constant dialogue with the polish government, and it plays in that sense a vital role in monitoring developments in the fields across the union, especially in its role as guardian of the treaty. you know where the presidency stands and you know where the commission stands, and it was very important that you had the opportunity to talk to the polish prime minister, who has gone out of her way to stand before you today and answer your questions and listen to your comments. i have gathered from the spirit of discussion, which is sometimes sensitive, first of all that there is a need for dialogue: that everybody agrees to. a serious dialogue. secondly, that there is – as i have heard from all sides – a need to look at the facts in an objective way and, as was mentioned by the commissioner, in a spirit of cooperation. on that basis, it was important that the venice commission was mentioned. from our side, you may rest assured that the presidency will follow this process closely, and you may rest assured that with all our collective efforts – all our critical appraisals, letters, debates and articles – in europe we will continue to foster and strive for the rule of law. because, ultimately, only in such a vibrant society can there be a rule of law. if one thing has become abundantly clear here in this lively debate today, politically speaking, the rule of law is colour-blind.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the media have their own importance in the european union. the independence of the media is a great asset and the diversity of the media is also a great asset. the commission therefore has not only the right, but also the duty, to examine complaints and inquiries about whether the independence and diversity of the media in europe are being threatened or whether they are being safeguarded and strengthened. we have nothing less to do and nothing more to do. the new small polish media law is about three bodies. it is about the board, it is about the supervisory board of tvp and pr, that is, the public television and the public radio of poland. it's about the board of directors for both companies, and it's about the media regulator. the seven-person supervisory board has so far been composed of one proposal from the minister of culture, one from the minister of finance, i.e. two from the government, and five from the media regulator, selected through an open competition. the amendment adopted at the turn of the year reduces the number of members of the supervisory board from seven to three, all three of whom are appointed by a personal decision of the minister of finance. secondly, the board. the board may be appointed and dismissed at any time in the future without giving reasons. this decision is taken by the supervisory board, which is appointed by the minister of state alone. in the future, the statutes of tvp and pr can be changed without a media regulator and without a parliament. we are therefore also wondering whether this development, in which the government, rather than the diversity of the parties, is moving closer to public service broadcasting, is endangering the independence of broadcasting. let us examine that question. we are grateful that the government has agreed to this dialogue. we also offer to continue this dialogue if the big media law is to be presented as announced in february or march. we ask that there be a chance of dialogue before the adoption. we would prefer that questions of the rule of law should not be examined retrospectively, but that a close, constructive and consultative dialogue between the commission and the member state and its government and parliament be possible before adoption.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, there are so many things to which i could react today, but given the hour i will be very brief. there are three points. the first point is: after hearing all this discussion about sovereignty, i maintain that poland is now more sovereign, more a master of its own destiny, than in the thousand years before it became a member of the european union. by pooling its sovereignty with other european nations, for the first time in its history poland has borders that are no longer disputed by its neighbours. that is true sovereignty, madam prime minister. that is a true achievement of all european nations, and poland in the first place. secondly, all members of the european union have signed, of their own free will, and ratified through their national parliaments, european treaties, thus entering into obligations as far as maintaining the rule of law is concerned. not just that, but you are even allowing the way you maintain those obligations to be judged by the court in luxembourg, to be controlled by the commission in brussels, to be discussed in the european parliament, and even to be challenged by other member states of the european union. so when there is an issue of the rule of law, there is no hiding behind national sovereignty, because you have agreed in the treaty you have signed and ratified that these issues can be discussed at the european level. that is a fact, mr legutko – a man who loves facts so much. let me give you some more facts about the issue at hand. and by the way, mr legutko, you have full right to your own opinions, but sadly not to have your own facts. let me raise a few issues. we have no objection, madam prime minister, to the principle that the composition of the constitutional tribunal should be balanced. we also fully agree that the constitutional law and customs of poland should be respected. but our concern that remains is that the constitutional tribunal has interpreted and applied these laws, yet these judgments are only partially being followed by you. i am not referring to the judgment you have been referring to all the time, which is the one of 3 december in which the court said that the old parliament appointed too many judges. but there is also the judgment of 9 december, in which the court invalidated a law of the new parliament because it had cancelled all the previous appointments, including those that the previous parliament had been fully entitled to make. please, in our dialogue that we are going to continue, react to that point. and by the way, if you so cherish the opinion of the venice commission – and you have asked for it; i thought you did it because i suggested it, but apparently not – then why do you not wait with the implementation of the laws until the venice commission has time to give its opinion? now you have just gone along with it, so the venice commission will have to come afterwards. well, the question remains of how poland will solve these issues because only by solving these issues of the composition can the tribunal again fully play its role as a rule of law safeguard. we also expect clarifications and the other reforms which have been adopted concerning the constitutional tribunal. the rule of law, and especially – especially – the separation of powers is of concern to all of us. we have learned, through painful european history, that we need the tripod of democracy, respect for human rights, and respect for the rule of law. none of these can flourish without the other two. you can never use democracy as an argument against the rule of law. nor can you use democracy as an argument against respect for human rights. we learned that through painful history, and poland has always been the greatest victim of that painful history. and now we see a free, proud, independent poland – not in spite of the european union, but because of the european union. that is why i believe in maintaining a constructive dialogue with the polish government, because i believe we can solve these issues in conformity with the rules that all members of the european union have adhered to.
prime minister of poland. thank you very much, mr president, for allowing me to speak at the end. i just wanted to thank you very warmly, because i think this is an important debate for all of us, certainly for poland, but i think also for the european parliament, for you. i would like to thank you very much and once again emphasise that poland is a state governed by the rule of law, a democratic state governed by the rule of law, which respects the constitution and all the laws in force in poland, and above all the treaties. thank you very much for your votes. i have every confidence that this information i have given you, which you have been waiting for, will help you to form your own opinion. i'm always at your disposal, of course. finally, mr president, if you will allow me, because the commissioner asked why we did not wait for the opinion of the venice commission to implement the law on the constitutional tribunal, which, i remind you, amended the law that was challenged by the court, by the constitutional tribunal itself. we did not wait for the opinion of the venice commission, just as you here in the european parliament did not wait for that opinion, but organized today's meeting, and just as the commission did not wait for the opinion of the venice commission, but i think that all of us, ladies and gentlemen, should have a deep feeling that our discussion and our common dialogue brings us all closer to what is most valuable, and what the value of the european union is. thank you very much for meeting me again! (laughter) (applause)
in writing.– i have been contacted by a significant number of people in poland following their recent general election result. the majority, but by no means all, suggest that there is no problem with democracy in poland; indeed, that there were greater issues before the election of the current government. they assert that criticism of poland in this regard is politically motivated. my position on this is clear: it is not for me, for meps, or the european union, to intervene in polish domestic politics. i am no expert on polish domestic politics, i do not profess to be such, and it would be just as inappropriate for me to comment on the same as it would be for polish politicians to interfere in the united kingdom. this whole debate is therefore a nonsense and should not be taking place at all.
mr president, i have had the privilege of personally observing the peace talks in havana at the invitation of both sides, helping contribute my own country’s experience of securing peace in northern ireland. as someone who has campaigned for peace and human rights in colombia throughout my time at this parliament, i believe an historic breakthrough can and will be achieved. today the suffering continues. in recent weeks, a 14-year-old girl was killed, and two patriotic march activists have been murdered. we acknowledge the stopping of air strikes by the government and the unilateral ceasefire undertaken by the farc, but further gestures towards peace, including on the treatment of prisoners, are still required. however, the agreement on victims was a huge achievement of the parties. it was this that persuaded me that the course of peace is now irreversible. it was an agreement which recognised the responsibility of both sides for the conflict and now their joint responsibility for peace. those who have attacked the peace process for so-called impunity should recognise there remains full accountability for war crimes under the jurisdiction of the international criminal court, and in agreement for reparations and restorative justice which enables an end to conflict. i join the high representative in underlining our deep commitment for the eu to support the implementation of peace. as tomorrow’s resolution makes clear, we want to follow the northern ireland model for our support to peace initiatives to be administered independently with the full participation of both sides of civil society. we must also assist with security guarantees so that the democratic opposition can act free from persecution. there must be no repeat of the massacre of the unión patriótica, no more deaths, no more failed peace processes, but peace with justice, justice for colombia. the time for peace has come.
blue-card question.– we live in a world where the 24-hour news cycles constantly bring us coverage of tragic global conflicts, as we see on a daily basis. do you agree with me that the beacon of hope provided as countries like colombia move towards peace often go under-reported in our media, and that perhaps we should better remember and recognise the progress that has actually been made as the newsreels have moved on?
madam president, recently we have seen harrowing images of starving children, women and elderly people in the syrian town of madaya. starvation and siege is being used by the syrian regime as a weapon of war and collective punishment. food, water and medicine cannot be bargaining chips. let us be clear: using starvation and siege as weapons is a war crime. madaya is not the only syrian city under siege: the un estimates that 400,000 people are going hungry in 14 areas. the eu should assist in ensuring that immediate access for the delivery of humanitarian assistance is possible. isis and its counterparts will continue to grow for as long as the international community continues to allow this starvation, torture and the massacre of millions. we must continue on the plan of action agreed on in the vienna process. with the support of the international community, we can negotiate a political solution and a transition. your decision, madam high representative, to give trade preferences to jordan is a welcome move. i also welcome, in this respect, saudi arabia’s efforts in bringing all the oppositions together and forming a broad coalition of muslim countries dedicated to fighting terrorism. we, the eu, are urging iran and saudi arabia to find a way to work together to end the region’s worst humanitarian crisis. it is time to end the conflict and bring peace and prosperity to all the people of syria. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr khan, your leader jeremy corbyn has said that isis has its strong points. do you agree with him, and if so, what are they?
blue-card answer. – well, all i know is that we need to deal with isis: they use the name of islam in causing so much harm in the whole world, and i think the more we work together in order to eliminate isis the better.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, tonight we should welcome the implementation of the joint comprehensive plan of action and, as rapporteur, the high representative will have this parliament’s further support to pursue a new path of cooperation with iran. but that now includes efforts to de—escalate tensions, recognising the fact that europe has common interests with both riyadh and tehran in energy security, conflict resolution and the fight against terrorism, but also common differences on the death penalty, democratic standards, justice on religious minorities and restrictions against women. both countries should refrain from allowing external financing, which can destabilise other countries and, directly or indirectly, support extremist groups. i would like to ask mrs mogherini again which human rights safeguards have been applied to the eu’s counter—terrorism agreement with the gulf states, given that some of the people the saudis executed have been identified by human rights groups not as terrorists, but as political dissidents. i also ask her to respond to the legal opinion which suggested that targeting of civilians in yemen means that continued arms sales to saudi arabia are in breach of the eu’s code of conduct. i hope and believe we have succeeded in halting a nuclear arms race in this region, and urgent action is now needed to stop one in conventional arms too. in many countries, shia and sunni moslems cohabit peacefully. in europe, we should be respectful about religious differences within islam, which have existed for centuries, but should also be determined to seek political cooperation, which is needed for the future. both iran and saudi arabia can have a role to play in the region that does not have to be at the cost of the other. each could be part of a new collective security structure in the middle east, and each could be a partner of the european union. whilst others are severing diplomatic ties, we should be intensifying them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i would like to thank ms mogherini and welcome her to parliament again. in the time available, i would mention iran only insofar as to welcome progress and say i am very much looking forward to welcoming iran back in from the cold. we, the eu, have a huge incentive and a huge potential to engage with the forces of progress within the republic. ms mogherini, many congratulations thus far and continue with your efforts. it is all the more concerning that, as we see progress with tehran, we see the kingdom of saudi arabia actually deteriorating: we see increasing repression at home, we see a real budget crisis which is driving much of the domestic politics of the kingdom and we see disastrous military interventions in its near abroad, especially in regard to yemen. eu engagement with the kingdom of course is very different state by state, but my own state, the uk, has since 2010 sold gbp 5.6 billion worth of arms to saudi arabia. these are being used in yemen with disastrous consequences. this is been harshly criticised by edward santiago, the head of save the children’s yemen office. he said that the uk gives the impression that diplomatic relations and arms sales trump the lives of yemen’s children: harsh criticism there. turning back to the eu, we do have a community of values enshrined in laws and international agreements. it is a very concrete question, ms mogherini, and i will write to you tomorrow. i think there is a considerable degree of dubiety over the legality under our laws, under our international agreements, of arms sales to saudi arabia, especially as they are being used in yemen. what assessment have your services made of that legality? if there has been no assessment, do you not think that perhaps there should be?
madam president, the recent events in saudi arabia and iran have further destabilised an already fragile middle east. i am worried that by taking sides in this conflict the eu will worsen the situation. i am particularly concerned that further inflaming sunni-shia sectarianism will have an adverse effect on resolving conflict in syria and yemen, and may well open conflicts in other parts of the world. however, there is still hope to do the right thing for the middle east. i welcome the lifting of sanctions and it will lead to the substantial foreign investment whose benefits will improve the lives of iranian citizens. let us continue supporting meaningful reforms in saudi arabia. i was impressed meeting the first woman elected to a municipal council. they and the youth of saudi arabia are the future and we in the eu must support them. both sides need to respect the principle of non-interference in other sovereign states. a stable and prosperous middle east requires that neither iran nor saudi arabia feel left behind.
madam president, within islam there is a difference between sunni and shia, a difference within sunni between the sufis and wahhabism, and so on. and not even all wahhabis support the brutal punishments in saudi arabia, but the export of such ideology, without a political counterbalance like the saudi monarchy, leads inexorably to isis doctrine and the situation in syria. isis hates everything we hold dear. we must fight those who would kill me for being a christian or throw others off buildings for being gay with every fibre of our being. but the british labour leader has the audacity to speak of isis’s strong points. even a british labour mep today failed to defend that point when i gave him the opportunity earlier. many here believe in the european union flag. i believe in the union jack flag; corbyn believes in the white flag. he is not fit to lead labour.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, this report considers adopting some of the principles enshrined for centuries in english common law, for example the presumption of innocence, the burden of proof being on the prosecution, the right to silence and not incriminate oneself, and the right to be present at one’s own trial. how ironic it is, then, that the british parliament has already abandoned those principles by adopting the eu’s own legal instruments. take the presumption of innocence enshrined in common law for at least eight centuries: under a european arrest warrant, a citizen can be surrendered and imprisoned in a foreign country without a scrap of evidence being presented against them in an english court. this in itself is to abandon the principle of the presumption of innocence. the first duty of english members of parliament is to protect the freedoms and liberties of their own people; instead, ours have shamefully betrayed us. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– it is under the european arrest warrant that innocent british citizens have been imprisoned and mistreated in hellhole prisons in countries like greece, when if there had been a proper extradition procedure the judge would have been able to look at the evidence, decide there wasn’t any and not extradite them. i’m sure i can remind you that there used to be – and still is – something called the european convention on extradition, which can be adopted instead of the european arrest warrant when britain hopefully abandons it, and under which we can still extradite people – but on the basis of real evidence, looked at by a real court, when it can be considered that there is a real case against them to be answered. only then can they be extradited, not before.
rapporteur.– madam president, thank you for the opportunity to speak on the issue of personal protective equipment. this file has been an interesting case study in how the single market operates for both businesses and consumers across the 28 different countries, in the roles of the commission, the council of ministers and the european parliament, and in how they interact. it has also been a case study on why it is important to have a seat at the negotiating table. just a few weeks ago, many of us saw the shocking images of a factory in turkey manufacturing thousands of fake life jackets. instead of helping a person to float, these jackets would make it more likely that the wearer would drown. in order to prevent fake, fraudulent or dangerous equipment from entering our markets, the european union has had common standards on personal protective equipment for 25 years. this covers lifejackets, crash helmets and safety harnesses – sort of equipment that is used in many different workplaces. i am sure colleagues will remember the recent ebola crisis, where ppe was crucial to protect nurses and doctors from infection. when ppe fails, lives can be lost. our european rules not only cover the responsibility of the manufacturers, but of importers and distributors too. they make it easier for our market surveillance authorities to track products that are found to be dangerous and to remove them from the market. having a common standard in europe can often help our manufacturers to secure sales in other parts of the globe, thus boosting our own trade. the technical changes in the report that we are discussing today will help simplify and modernise 25 years of legislation. this is welcomed by manufacturers, consumer organisations and market players along the supply line, and i welcome it too. but one of the key quandaries of a single market is always how much standardisation is necessary. in the commission’s initial approach, they suggested increasing the scope of the legislation to domestic gloves. now i believe we need a better approach to regulation, and new laws should be based on a clear analysis of the costs and benefits. there was no impact assessment to justify this increase in the scope. furthermore, i do not believe we need an eu—level agreement on what we wear in our homes to do the washing up. i went into politics to get out of the kitchen not to write rules about what people do in their own sinks. i would like to thank my colleagues from the parliament’s internal market committee for voting to reject this commission suggestion to extend the scope to domestic gloves. we then went into negotiation with the council – the representatives of 28 european governments. after much discussion, they agreed with most of what the meps had suggested. there will be no eu law on washing-up gloves. there will be no eu law on those handmade artisanal products which we see in our christmas markets and craft fairs. but 27 of those ministers voted by a large majority that they would like to have an eu law on factory—made oven gloves. i personally do not see that need, but i do respect their democratic decision. furthermore, given that many countries – including my own – already have a market standard on this product, i do not believe that this particular element would add cost to the consumers. i am therefore happy to concede to the member states’ elected democratic governments on this point. the gloves are off – at least the washing-up gloves – as are the umbrellas – one more minute, please – but by being at the table, we have made a hundred different amendments to the legislation, all making it simpler, clearer, less bureaucratic and also safer in life saving equipment. i hope that this will make it easier for businesses and consumers to trade.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank the shadows, the commission and the council for their cooperation on this gas appliances file. for those of us across the eu who have turned on their gas fire tonight or cooked their dinner on a gas cooker this evening, this proposal will ensure that these day—to—day household products we all take for granted are safe, do what they say they will do, and can be bought or sold across the european union. therefore, these new proposals set an example that, by cooperating together to create one set of rules affecting gas ovens, gas cookers and gas central heating systems, we can ensure the greatest safety of these products, which cover 500 million eu citizens. the mandatory essential requirements and the conformity assessment procedures to be followed by manufacturers must be identical in all member states. tomorrow’s vote in plenary will be on the final text agreed upon in the trialogues. i hope everyone will be able to endorse the agreement, as i believe we have managed to find a good compromise between all parties involved. subject to a positive vote in plenary tomorrow, the regulation will be transposed into national law by all member states by january 2018. the gas appliances sector covers a wide range of products, from simple portable cookers to boilers in big buildings. the current eu stock of gas appliances is at 470 million and growing, with more than 30 million units being sold annually. the annual sales for installed gas appliances account for around eur 40 billion, and the annual turnover for fittings alone is around eur 1.7 billion. with the scale of this market, it is absolutely imperative to set the highest manufacturing standards possible when producing and placing gas appliances on the eu market, in order to ensure the health and safety of persons and domestic animals. when talking about health and safety, i would like to highlight this evening the issue of carbon monoxide. when a fuel burns, it generally reacts with the surrounding oxygen and produces carbon dioxide. however, when fuels are unable to burn fully, they produce the dangerous gas known as carbon monoxide, which is poisonous. i have insisted on certain references to carbon monoxide poisoning in this regulation, and i am happy to see this language reflected in the final text. however, not enough is being done by national governments and the eu in this respect and its importance seems to be downplayed despite statistics. in the uk carbon monoxide – often referred to as a silent killer – injures around 200 people per annum, and around 40 of such injuries are fatal. these deaths are all avoidable. the case of british children bobby and christi shepherd, who died in 2006 of carbon monoxide poisoning at the louis corcyra beach hotel in corfu as a result of a faulty boiler, has provoked widespread anger and calls for change. the coroner in the case, david hinchliff, has called for the tightening of eu—wide regulations in this area in order to prevent future deaths. the travel guidance group, holiday travel watch, has estimated that half a million uk holidaymakers are at risk of co poisoning every year. according to the world health organisation (who), co kills more people annually than hiv-aids or skin cancer. currently there are no eu laws setting out minimum safety standards for hotels in europe to comply with, meaning there exist varying levels of safety in hotels across europe. labour meps certainly feel this is clearly a cross—border issue deserving legislative action. consumers deserve to be properly protected, no matter where they choose to stay. in the absence of further proposals for legislation on hotel safety, labour meps support the review of the 1986 council recommendation and want to see a firm provision for carbon monoxide safety within this revision. this is the only current eu legislative tool containing guidelines for hotels and fire and gas safety. without any new regulation, we want to see specific research provisions on carbon monoxide safety and the use of carbon monoxide detectors. there is currently also no body which collects pan-european data on carbon monoxide. if the effectiveness of eu measures taken in this area is to be assessed, this must be remedied. i hope that you will agree with me that it is essential to deal with the importance of gas safety and carbon monoxide and that we must take further action. thank you very much, madam president, for your discretion on this subject.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i welcome the revision of the cableways legislation, which will cut red tape for businesses that want to sell into the eu. they will also make it easier for national authorities to check safety regulations, and it stops the protectionist measures employed by some member states. but the commission got it wrong by including historic cableways, and i am delighted that they have now been excluded from the scope of this regulation. this is great news for bridgnorth cliff railway in shropshire, which next year celebrates its 125th birthday. it originally started as a way to help local people avoid climbing the 200 steps between the high and low town in bridgnorth, but it has evolved into a major tourist draw and a vital source of income for the town. it already complies with national health and safety legislation, so it is safe, but forcing it to comply with new one—size—fits—all rules on replacement parts would likely have led it to being shut down, given the expense of trying to get its custom—made parts to fit the new requirements. it’s great to see that in this case at least, a one—size—fits—all approach has been stopped in its tracks and historic tourist attractions like bridgnorth cliff railway can continue to be enjoyed by future generations.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, ‘harmonisation’ and ‘european union’ are words that go hand in hand. it is no surprise, therefore, to see a debate on three legislative reports aiming to increase harmonisation between member states. the one-size-fits-all approach of eu regulation is far from perfect, and these regulations in discussion are no exception. the uk government, for example, has highlighted concerns at the personal protective equipment regulation and announced that it opposes this regulation passing. yet, as we all know too well, the uk will be forced to accept it. i am sure that we could all agree that prosperous, mutually beneficial and efficient trade between nations is desirable by all. but it is the growing number of harmonised regulations: are they really necessary? i am afraid i am not yet convinced.
rapporteur.– madam president, our single market is meant to make it easier to trade across the 28 countries of 500 million consumers, and sometimes we do not need a one-size-fits all approach – but sometimes we do. tonight we have been talking about keeping people safe from gas boilers so that they do not die from carbon monoxide problems, fall off a chairlift when it collapses or die or become injured because of personal protective equipment. rules that we have had in europe for 25 years have now been simplified, modernised and clarified. by being at the table involved in the detail, we have negotiated a better position. on my own report i tabled 146 amendments to the commission proposal. 117 of those are in the final legislation, including a new procedure to make it easier for small companies. we have made it less bureaucratic whilst maintaining safety, and done in a manner that should not increase costs for consumers or manufacturers. i hope this will make it easier to trade. my colleague from ukip said she did not understand why we need this legislation. she has not talked in a single debate or tabled a single amendment. when it comes to making the rules by which our businesses and consumers trade, i would rather be at the table negotiating a deal, because in europe, if we are not at the table, we risk being on the menu.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs. the warm words that we have heard this evening from colleagues have been really touching. i would like to say to mr kelly that we do all this work and get very little recognition, yet tonight we are trying to save lives. that is something that the few of us who are in this chamber this evening should remember. why we are here, even at ten minutes to midnight, is really important. on the value of the single market, ms ford is absolutely right that we work together, we come up with a compromise and then we sit at the table. if ukip had their way, they would have us leave the eu, have no say and we would still have to pay for the privilege. it is not a workable solution. we need to make sure that the uk remains in the european union, that we have our say and that we influence policies that influence the single market. i think it was the previous dutch presidency, all those years ago, which described the eu as this beautiful thing, this beautiful piece of process, but something very precious and something that we need to make sure we keep working upon. the fact that we have a single market with 500 million consumers, covering 28 countries, and tonight we can sit and make decisions that impact all of those people in a sensible, positive way, is something that is very precious and worth defending. thank you for your time this evening. thank you for all your support. it has been a privilege working with people who want to make sure the single market works for our citizens.
blue-card question. – mr pittella, in this huge shopping list you have just given you did not mention ttip. what are you going to do? is your group, as we know, going to support ttip, which as we all know is a bosses’ charter, or are you going to stand against it and stand with the workers of europe?
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the dutch prime minister and i were both born in the same year, in the same month, in fact within a day of each other. we have seen the eu change much in our lifetime, and in your speech, prime minster, you laid out the road along which the eu has travelled over time. but now we are at a fork in that road, and by the end of your presidency we will determine which fork to take. will we take the road that sees our migration crisis continue, fudges decisions over the eurozone and sees a country, my country, possibly vote to leave? or will we take the eu along the road to recovery, to a reformed eu that allows our citizens to harness the spirit of enterprise, to create jobs and growth? and at that fork in the road stands a traffic cop for the next six months, and that will be you, prime minister. and it is great to see that there are still some real market liberals left in the alde group rather than the pseudo-socialists that we see lined up in this parliament. but your dutch presidency is right to focus on the key to recovery, the economy. because if the european union does not have innovative and growing economies, we cannot offer opportunities to young people who want a job, we cannot provide the resources needed to tackle the situation in syria and the refugee crisis, we cannot tackle any of the other challenges we face. so your priority of cutting red tape that ties down businesses is one that the european conservatives and reformists group welcomes. but we have seen all too often how presidencies become so desperate to get legislative agreements on their report card that they agree to any old rubbish. so my group will judge your presidency not on the quantity but the quality of legislation that we see passed in the next six months. we will look to you to remove obstacles to trading across the single market, especially the digital single market. we will look to you to advocate enforcement of existing rules such as the eu stability and growth pact. and, as well as a digital single market, we will look to you to quickly move on proposals on capital markets and energy proposals. we hope that the dutch reputation for pragmatism will ensure that these proposals will not simply create more bureaucratic regulatory unions. in capital markets we do not necessarily need another union but transparent, efficient capital markets that allow entrepreneurs to access alternative sources of finance and not rely on banks alone. for energy, rather than focus on a bureaucratic union, we should be looking to interconnect energy grids, diversify supply and improve energy efficiency and conservation. but, as we look ahead today, your greatest challenge will be the refugee and migration crisis, and as you try to find solutions we hope you will rely less on imposed solutions and instead focus on cooperation and countries taking responsibility. any leader that sends out an open invitation to all, regardless of whether they are genuinely fleeing persecution and war or seeking to queue-jump the legal migration channels, needs to take responsibility for the impact on their country and other countries. those countries that are failing to protect the schengen zone’s external borders need to live up to their responsibility. and all of us here and in the commission should be helping countries to cooperate, to find solutions that are fair to member states, to find solutions that are fair to their neighbours, and to find solutions fair to the people seeking asylum. we will certainly see one referendum during your presidency; we may see two. the outcome of both of these referendums may depend on whether we can show the people that we are listening to them and that we can offer them solutions and not more problems. it is a heavy burden on your shoulders, and we in the european conservatives and reformists look forward to working with you to tackle the crisis with better solutions, to allow countries to cooperate better, and to steer the eu in a better direction. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– mr kamall, you spoke about the need for a reformed europe. unlike yourself and the dutch prime minister, i am unfortunately old enough to remember the last referendum, under harold wilson’s labour government, when we had a few inconsequential, cosmetic changes which were paraded as a great reform and nobody can now remember what they were. in terms of reform do you not think it is a major omission from mr cameron’s list of reforms that he does not want to restore the supremacy of parliament and have the ability to reject unwanted law? are not all his reforms meaningless without that central key reform, which is we take back supremacy of law to our own parliament? do you agree or disagree? (applause)
blue-card answer.– mr batten, i was brought up to be tolerant to those more elderly and to have respect for the elderly, and i can understand why your memory fails you. you certainly do not remember the details of the 1975 referendum and actually, you may not remember some press reports last week in the uk media that in fact said that david cameron, the prime minister, is looking at ideas on how to reassert the supremacy of the british parliament. maybe it is your listening skills. but what i would say to you, mr batten, is please, at the end of the day, whatever your view, we have plenty of time for the debate, at the end of the day it is the british people who will decide whether to stay or to leave the eu.
blue-card question.– mr verhofstadt, i wanted to ask you about the internal market. we have heard the dutch prime minister talk about the need to unlock that economic benefit, that eur 1.25 trillion, from further cooperation on the single market. we have heard the socialists say that they do not really care about it: i am glad that they are so rich that they can leave that money untouched. the problem is so often that we try to unlock that benefit but just replace 28 regulations with an even more expensive one at european level. do you therefore promise that your group will not vote for legislation that adds more cost? will you commit to a burden reduction target to reduce red tape, and will you not add more costs through more social legislation, more legislation on our shared economy and more legislation and more costs on data, for example? do you promise to commit to reducing costs for our economy?
mr president, i just wanted to ask mr rutte why he did not listen to a single word that my colleague here said. is it because you are frightened that geert wilders may take over your position in 2017? i suggest you listen, otherwise you are out the door.
mr president, the dutch prime minister takes over the presidency of the european union at a time when more and more citizens feel a disenchantment with the actions of the european elite and indeed the increasing drive of these institutions to interfere in the decisions of sovereign governments, as seen in this house both yesterday and today. in the united kingdom we await with interest the outcome of our prime minister’s renegotiation – a renegotiation much flaunted by him, but underwhelming to most of us. at the core of the eu’s problems is that european leaders are selling their people short, ignoring the need for substantial and radical reform. mr rutte, you listed the problems and many had hoped to see a greater willingness to face these concerns head-on under the dutch presidency. in a poll published last weekend in the united kingdom the ‘leave’ campaign was six points ahead. the wave of euroscepticism that abounds – not just in the united kingdom, but in many other member states – cannot be ignored forever. in the united kingdom we look forward to the next six months, not just because of the dutch presidency but because of the opportunity for real democratic accountability.
mr president, as we welcome the dutch prime minister, mr rutte, to the hot seat of the six-month revolving presidency, i would like to take the opportunity to address him. mr rutte, i note you are a keen historian because you were quoting winston churchill for us this morning, and indeed mr verhofstadt backed you up. you are quite right, post-war churchill did encourage integration, especially between france and germany, but he made it absolutely clear at all times that the united kingdom should not be a part of it and i would like you please to acknowledge that. i also very much doubt that, 50 years after his death, churchill would approve of the club the way it is, because he was a democrat. this eu faces an existential crisis. indeed, there is an outbreak of a contagious disease. it is not a new one; the greeks first came across it a couple of thousand years ago. the virus in its new form began in denmark in the early 1990s, but was put down with a heavy german hand. there have been a couple of outbreaks in ireland, but substantial european money again cured the outbreak. but the red alert in 2005, when the contagion swept across the netherlands and france, frankly has never gone away, and i think now we have simultaneous outbreaks of the disease. in denmark it now looks to be wholly irreversible and, in my own country, despite decades of our political establishment denying its existence, a recent opinion poll showed that sufferers may now be actually in a majority. what surprised me about your speech, as the dutch prime minister, is that you did not mention the fact that 427 000 of your own citizens have outed themselves in public, declared themselves to be carriers, called a referendum for 6 april and encouraged the rest of the country to join in. i suppose it must be embarrassing for you. the diagnosis, by the way, will not be popular in this house: the disease is called democracy. people want to have a say on their future. mr juncker here says that there will be a continental crisis if the dutch vote no. well i’ll drink to that, is all i can say. when you add to that schengen, and when you add to that people’s utter revulsion at what happened in cologne, i think that you are going to have a very, very hot time over the course of the next six months. whether we can, the peoples of europe, break this union between now and the end of june, i do not know. but i will tell you what, we going to have a damn good go. (applause from ukip group)
mr president, the rape and sexual abuse of women by male muslim gangs – usually in crowds to protect the perpetrators, and carried out as a punishment for women in public – is now happening in europe, thanks to angela merkel’s and the eu’s policies. it has been happening in muslim countries for years. amongst the migrants that we have waved through into europe, there will be fundamentalist islamics and some daesh supporters, and we are going to see more of this behaviour. in the north of england over the last twenty years, groups of pakistani men have subversively and systematically raped young white girls, and some have been convicted, while some labour-run councils have turned blind eyes to these crimes for the fear of rocking the multiculturalism boat – and that is according to one of their own mps. every person in this chamber and every uk politician should stand up against this and put women and children first and forget their own politics.
mr president, rarely has there been a tougher time than the eu is facing now, so it is a tough time to hold the presidency: a security crisis, a migrant crisis, a europe in need of economic recovery and renegotiations with the uk. but i am an optimist and i think we can overcome these challenges. i am encouraged by the dutch presidency’s key proposal to chair a union that focuses on the essentials. it may not be the most dynamic of aims for a presidency, but doing less and doing it better, and aiming for simplicity over grand gestures, is the key to good lawmaking and finding the necessary solutions to our collective challenges. as rapporteur for the migrant relocation mechanism, i encourage a sensible and measured approach to the upcoming proposals for dublin, the schengen code, resettlement and security. i hope that this is a presidency that will also deliver the better regulation for a better europe that we all seek.
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister rutte for an impressive speech with a historical sweep, which reminded us that churchill was among those who launched the process of european integration, something the current crop of british conservatives seem to have forgotten. but, prime minister, you went on to focus criticism, where it seems that you agree with them, on the alleged problem of excessive regulation that the european union inflicts on member states. there are three things wrong with that analysis. first, the union only ever has legislation if national ministers in the council have agreed that it is necessary to have common rules. second, when we get it right, common rules are an exercise in cutting red tape for businesses by having a single set of rules, instead of 28 divergent ones. third, those rules are about making our market fair. we have common rules to protect consumers, to protect workers, to protect the environment and to ensure fair competition. when we get it right, appropriate regulation is not a burden, but is an asset.
mr president, europe represents hope for the future of britain, whether it is about trade, protecting workers’ rights, the environment, our security or maintaining a powerful voice in the world. your priorities demonstrate the reason why britain’s future should be in the eu. i welcome the commitment to delivering fairness in the workplace and the importance of investment into research and innovation as well as the need to teach new skills for the fast-evolving digital economy. our future lies in a knowledge economy with fairly rewarded and fairly treated workers. the eu’s investment in research provides for new materials for manufacturing, for breakthrough treatments for cancer, and creates jobs in the vibrant digital sector. i look forward to the work of the dutch presidency and what it will deliver to reinforce britain’s place in the eu. (applause)
mr president, i would like to speak under the rules concerning conduct in the chamber. i have been trying to listen to the dutch prime minister’s concluding remarks. it is one thing to cheer or jeer or barrack or heckle during a debate, because that is a democratic interchange of ideas. but what we have had here now is an absolute shambles. i have tried to listen to the prime minister above the hubbub of people having conversations with their backs turned. what other parliament in the world would behave in such a manner and treat a head of government with such disrespect?
mr president, i am raising a very concerning matter which i know you personally will take deeply to your heart. on monday, my colleague james carver raised a point of order here on the eu funding an organisation in israel called b’tselem. b’tselem’s raison d’être is the protection of people from torture and terrorism. unfortunately, activists in that organisation have now been caught selling the details of palestinian individuals selling land to israelis, who have then been tortured and killed. i would urge you to investigate this matter and the use of eu money – otherwise people will regard the eu has having blood on its hands.
madam president, this vote comes down to whether we want to continue fuelling a growing obesity epidemic or whether we want to protect the health of our children and future generations. the commission has proposed continuing to allow 30% of energy in baby foods to come from sugar. this, i believe, is unacceptable and way above what the world health organisation (who) recommends. they recommend limiting intake of free sugars to less than 10% of total energy intake and to less than 5% for additional health benefits. so my resolution calls upon the commission to go back to the drawing board with this proposal and to bring it in line with the who recommendations. so to give all european children a better, healthier future, i urge you all to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is very much a procedural matter in which latvia is included into the prüm directive. we abstained on this issue because it is completely up to latvia if they want to be a part of this directive.
in writing. ‒ i felt it was appropriate to abstain on this, as the united kingdom has an opt-out from the relevant legislation. it would be morally questionable for me to cast an affirmative vote on something which does not relate to the united kingdom in any way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this implementing decision to authorise latvia to exchange automated vehicle registration data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it aims to increase cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, and following the pilot project in latvia, evaluations have shown no hindrance to eu data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which concerns a pilot project carried out by latvia with the netherlands regarding the exchange of information regarding vehicles between the two member states. this project is part of an old council decision to increase cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. following the pilot project in latvia, evaluations have shown no hindrance to eu data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as this does not affect the uk.
in writing. ‒ i am happy to see that this report passed with such large support in the plenary as it did in the committee. this report concerns the proposed council implementing decision which aims to authorise the exchange of information of vehicle registration data in latvia, pursuant to the prüm treaty, and i support the intentions of the decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerned a pilot project carried out by latvia and the netherlands regarding the exchange of information on vehicles between the two member states. this project, according to subsequent evaluations, had no adverse impact on eu data protection standards.
madam president, one of the most important things that have come down from our legal traditions in the united kingdom is the tradition of the magna carta that no—one should be held in trial and arrested without due cause and no-one can be kept in prison for a long period of time without due cause. this tradition that everyone, including the monarch himself, is under the law has been one of the most important attributes of our legal system: the presumption of innocence until proven guilty. if we have a different structure, then the state becomes the dominant partner and the citizen becomes the junior partner in that relationship whereas, when we have the state to prove that you are guilty, then you are required to state the rights of the citizen first.
madam president, 800 years ago we established the principle of habeas corpus, that you should not be arrested or detained without purpose, and now in the name of the creation of a european criminal justice system and particularly through the mechanism of the european arrest warrant, that principle has been abandoned. i was involved in a constituency case where a young man in what was very obviously a case of mistaken identity spent two years in detention in greece, 11 months of it in one of the nastiest prisons in europe, for the sake of a criminal action that was dismissed almost the moment it came to court because it was so very obviously a false case. now that is no presumption of innocence; being detained without any charge being brought for that length of time one can only conclude that the process is the punishment. so now, in this anniversary of magna carta, to be told that we are going to be given the presumption of innocence by the european union, i find insulting.
in writing. ‒ the united kingdom has an opt-out on this legislative proposal, therefore the vote will not affect us. we abstained for two reasons; the first is that we of course believe in the presumption of innocence for anyone that has been accused of a crime and the uk has a longstanding history in protecting that value, we however do not believe that it should be the eu that decides this for member states. the second reason is that we feel that we should not interfere on those situations that affect other member states and not ours.
in writing. ‒ i felt it was appropriate to abstain on this, as the united kingdom has an opt-out from the relevant legislation. it would be morally questionable for me to cast an affirmative vote on something which does not relate to the united kingdom in any way.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the final vote on this report as the uk has decided not to opt in to this directive. this is partly because the broad principles and safeguards contained within it are already reflected in uk law, but mostly because i share the british government’s view that eu action in this area is not necessary, and it should be left to member states.
in writing. ‒ this draft directive is part of a package of proposals to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings, which includes one on safeguards for children, and another on legal aid. labour meps support the idea of establishing minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as the presumption of innocence. the report outlines effective procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings at eu level which will strengthen an individual’s right to a fair trial. along with ireland and denmark, the uk will not opt in to this directive so there is no conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour party colleagues, i voted in favour of this draft directive which is part of a package of proposals to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings, including one on safeguards for children, and another on legal aid. i support the idea of establishing minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as the presumption of innocence. the report outlines effective procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings at eu level which will strengthen an individual’s right to a fair trial. along with ireland and denmark, the uk will not opt in to this directive so there is no conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law.
in writing. ‒ the uk has decided not to opt in to this legislation and that is a position i can support. the commission failed to show that this proposal brings any added value and accordingly it fails to meet the subsidiarity requirements set out in the eu treaty. i therefore abstained in this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. labour meps support the idea of establishing minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as the presumption of innocence.
in writing. ‒ this draft directive is part of a package of proposals to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings, which includes one on safeguards for children and another on legal aid. labour meps support the idea of establishing minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as the presumption of innocence. the report outlines effective procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings at eu level which will strengthen an individual’s right to a fair trial. along with ireland and denmark, the uk will not opt in to this directive so there is no conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission’s proposal for a directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and a principle which is key to preventing arbitrary judgments and any abuse of process in criminal proceedings, and which underpins protection of the right to a fair trial as set out in article 6 of the european convention on human rights, article 48 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the universal declaration of human rights. the proposal for a directive is made all the more important by the limitation of the rights of suspects and accused persons and the erosion of the principle of the presumption of innocence that is currently being seen in several eu member states.
in writing. ‒ this draft directive is part of a package of proposals to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings, which includes one on safeguards for children, and another on legal aid. labour meps support the idea of establishing minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as the presumption of innocence. the report outlines effective procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings at eu level which will strengthen an individual’s right to a fair trial. along with ireland and denmark, the uk will not opt in to this directive so there is no conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as this does not affect the uk.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this draft directive which is part of a package of proposals to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings, which includes one on safeguards for children, and another on legal aid. i support the idea of establishing minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as the presumption of innocence. the report outlines effective procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings at eu level which will strengthen an individual’s right to a fair trial. along with ireland and denmark, the uk will not opt in to this directive so there is no conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law.
in writing. ‒ this draft directive is part of a package of proposals to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings, which includes one on safeguards for children, and another on legal aid. labour meps support the idea of establishing minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as the presumption of innocence. the report outlines effective procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings at eu level which will strengthen an individual’s right to a fair trial. along with ireland and denmark, the uk will not opt in to this directive so there is no conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law.
in writing. ‒ this draft directive is part of a package of proposals to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings, which include one on safeguards for children and another on legal aid. labour meps support the idea of establishing minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as the presumption of innocence. the report outlines effective procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings at eu level which will strengthen an individual’s right to a fair trial. along with the ireland and denmark, the uk will not opt in to this directive, so there is no conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law.
in writing. ‒ ukip has opposed this proposal on the principle that we are against further harmonisation of the internal market. this relates specifically to the change of the legislation from a directive to a regulation. furthermore, we are also particularly concerned with the inclusion of products that are intended for private use against heat (i.e. oven gloves) in the scope of this legislation. ukip believes this breaches the principle of proportionality and we therefore support the uk government’s recommendation in voting against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this was a bizarre report, written by a british conservative mep, yet opposed by her majesty’s conservative government. it rather implies that the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing. on the subject of hands, the inclusion of items such as oven gloves and umbrellas in ‘personal protective equipment’ is rather stretching a point. i find little to add to the comments of her majesty’s government, which notes that the inclusion of such items ‘breaches the principle of proportionality’. indeed, i see no reason why the uk government should not have the competence to deal with such matters as oven gloves and umbrellas instead. it was therefore entirely consistent with my principles to vote against.
in writing. ‒ personal protective equipment (ppe) is worn or used to protect a person’s health and safety, such as goggles or helmets worn by builders on a construction site. today’s vote will help improve the existing rules, and ensure better compliance of ppe manufacturers. having common standards across the whole european market helps improve effectiveness, while lessening costs.
in writing. ‒ i support the final agreement on personal protective equipment, which avoids any unnecessary expansion of the scope of the regulation. i particularly welcome the exclusion of oven gloves from the proposal, which the commission had originally suggested to cover even though these products were not regulated as ppe previously. their inclusion in the scope would have entailed a significant increase in costs for manufacturers of such gloves, without any clear corresponding consumer benefit.
in writing. ‒ the use of requisite personal protective equipment can be essential for a person’s health and safety, be it at home or at work. i voted in favour of this proposal, which will harmonise and improve the existing rules in this area and thus ensure better compliance of ppe manufacturers.
in writing. ‒ personal protective equipment (ppe) means equipment designed and manufactured to be worn or held by a person for protection against one or more risks for his or her health or safety. i voted in favour of this report as it will help to harmonise and improve the existing rules, thus ensuring better compliance of ppe manufacturers. it is about ‎making sure products used in homes and factories are safe. health and safety is not about red tape – it is about saving lives and protecting people’s health.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and support strong requirements regarding personal protective equipment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it is ridiculous that the eu are trying to regulate things like oven gloves.
in writing. ‒ this legislative proposal on personal protective equipment from vicky ford was well written and i voted in favour of it. personal protective equipment is essential to protect a person’s health and safety whether they are at work or at home. the vote today will help to harmonise and improve the rules that already exist providing for personal protective equipment for manufacturers of the product.
in writing. ‒ whilst ukip are not against standardised safety proposals which help to ensure that citizens are better protected against harmful appliances reaching the market, we are opposed to this proposal on the grounds that we are against further harmonisation of the internal market. this relates specifically to the change of the legislation from a directive to a regulation.
in writing. ‒ i do not oppose international standards in such matters in any way. indeed, in many ways i would describe myself as a globalist. whilst i do not support the european union, i support british membership of organisations such as the united nations, the international organisation for standardisation, the g7, the g20, the commonwealth, and many, many more. the uk already has such regulations concerning the burning of gaseous fuels, so there is no need for us to further add to the regulatory burden. this report seeks to harmonise where harmonisation is unnecessary (and explains why i support the organisations listed above but not the european union). i voted against.
in writing. ‒ as a shadow draftsman on this report for my group i am pleased with the agreement reached, after extensive negotiations. it will reduce red tape for manufacturers and national authorities. we have avoided some of the more problematic original proposals in parliament, such as professional servicing for typically self-maintained appliances such as camp stoves, by allowing national rules to be applied where those exist.
in writing. ‒ this regulation is absolutely necessary, given that gas appliances cover a wide range of products and the fact that the number of gas appliances in the eu is estimated at 470 million and growing. a further 30 million units are sold every year. the sheer quantity of appliances therefore necessitates a high level of protection of the health and safety of persons, domestic animals and property. the report aims to achieve this by setting harmonised requirements and more transparent rules for gas appliance manufacturers.
in writing. ‒ six people died and more than 300 were left injured in essex last year as a result of gas-related incidents. carbon monoxide poisoning kills. in the last five years, the gas safe register found dangerous appliances in one in six homes in this, just one of the six counties in my east of england constituency. i am not just talking about gas fires and cookers; from the smallest portable camping stoves to industrial boilers for big buildings, the current eu stock of gas appliances is at 470 million and growing, with more than 30 million units being sold annually. given this magnitude, a high level of safety is absolutely essential. i welcome this report, proposed by my british labour mep colleague, which aims to achieve this higher level of safety by setting common requirements and more transparent rules for gas appliance manufacturers in europe. this is the perfect example of the eu not simply looking to improve the lives of people, but actually to save them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. gas appliances cover a wide range of products, from simple portable cookers to boilers for big buildings, and the current eu stock of gas appliances is at 470 million and growing, with more than 30 million units being sold annually. given this magnitude, a high level of protection of the health and safety of persons, domestic animals and property are absolutely essential and the report aims to achieve this by setting harmonised requirements and more transparent rules for gas appliance manufacturers.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation on appliances burning gaseous fuels which intends to replace directive 2009/142/ec. this directive is an example of union harmonisation legislation, ensuring the free movement of gas appliances. it has contributed considerably to the completion and operation of the single market and it harmonises the conditions for the placing on the market and/or putting into service of appliance burning gaseous fuels covered within its scope with regard to gas safety risks and rational use of energy. directive 2009/142/ec sets out essential requirements that appliances burning gaseous fuels must comply with in order to be made available on the eu market. the gas sector plays an important role in the eu economy and employs 476 000 people in the gas appliances sector alone. gas appliances cover a wide range of products, from simple portable cookers to boilers for big buildings and the current eu stock of gas appliances is at 470 million and growing, with more than 30 million units being sold annually.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal as i do not wish to see eu regulation in this area.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of this report. gas appliances are a big part of our lives and the economy, from simple portable cookers to the industrial boilers needed for big buildings. the current european stock stands at 470 million and growing, that is almost one for every single citizen in the eu. this stock is also growing, with more than 30 million units being sold annually. the sheer size of the area means that safety measures are vital for the health and happiness to our citizens. this report helps to maintain a high level of protection for persons, domestic appliances and properties. this can be achieved by harmonising safety requirements across the eu and creating more transparent rules for gas appliance manufacturers. it is vital that we continue to do so in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of new safety rules for gas appliances to help keep uk consumers safe. strict safety requirements are really important in this industry, as gas appliances include a huge range of products, from simple portable cookers to boilers. this report aims to achieve this by setting harmonised requirements and more transparent rules for gas appliance manufacturers.
madam president, there are many thousands of cable cars operating in europe today. it is vital that they are safe and that the public has full confidence in their safety. this new regulation will help ensure up-to-date and strengthened design and construction standards for the future of cable car transport, including in sporting and urban settings. as the lead member for this measure for the socialists and democrats, i warmly welcome the new rules and the fact that they were overwhelmingly adopted by this parliament. i also welcome the extensive work that has been undertaken to achieve this improvement in cable car regulation, and especially to put in place clearer drafting and a tougher penalties regime to prevent and to deal with breaches of the law.
in writing. ‒ ukip has opposed this proposal on the principle that we are against further harmonisation of the internal market. this relates specifically to the change of the legislation from a directive to a regulation.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which deals with safety aspects related to cableway installations. although being primarily concerned with harmonising standards throughout the eu, many safety aspects are still left to the control of national member states such as the appointment of competence national authorities to control cableways, analysis procedures by those bodies, market surveillance and penalties for breach of safety standards. the regulation further puts in place a notification system for when a defect is detected in one country, and is assumed not to be confined to the territory of that country. given that the aims are to provide protection for users, operators and workers, i was happy to support the proposals.
in writing. ‒ as with the previous report, the health and safety executive in the united kingdom already has appropriate legislation in place. further harmonisation will not enhance public safety but will generate further bureaucracy. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i support this report as a sensible agreement which should reduce administrative burden and enhance consumer safety. i particularly welcome the common-sense approach taken to historic cableways, which have been excluded from the scope of the regulation. such visitor attractions as bridgnorth’s cliff railway already comply with national health and safety requirements and would have found it very difficult to meet the standardised replacement parts requirements of the regulation given their custom-built nature. thanks to this agreement these historic tourist attractions can continue to be enjoyed by generations to come.
in writing. ‒ cableways are a common feature in ski and sports resorts across the eu and also play a key role in many urban transport systems. this regulation will help to harmonise the rules to make sure that newly constructed cableways meet stringent health and safety requirements, protecting the passengers and workers who travel on them.
in writing. ‒ cableways are a common feature in ski and sports resorts across the eu and also play a key role in many urban transport systems. today's vote will help to harmonise the rules to make sure that newly constructed cableways meet stringent health and safety requirements, protecting the passengers and workers who travel on them.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it will help to harmonise the rules to make sure that newly constructed cableways meet stringent health and safety requirements, protecting the passengers and workers who travel on them.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation on cableway installations which is an example of union harmonisation legislation. the proposal sets out to harmonise the conditions of placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cable installations and to ensure the free movement of these products in the eu. all safety components and subsystems will have to be designed and manufactured in compliance with the essential requirements provided for by the regulation. with regard to the cableway installations, the regulation also foresees total harmonisation of the essential requirements to which they must comply. the regulation shall repeal and replace directive 2000/9/ec of 20 march 2000 relating to cableway installations designed to carry persons.
in writing. ‒ cableways are a common feature in ski and sports resorts across the eu and also play a key role in many urban transport systems. today’s vote will help to harmonise the rules to make sure that newly constructed cableways meet stringent health and safety requirements, protecting the passengers and workers who travel on them.
in writing. ‒ cableways are a common feature in ski and sports resorts across the eu and also play a key role in many urban transport systems. today’s vote will help to harmonise the rules to make sure that newly constructed cableways meet stringent health and safety requirements, protecting the passengers and workers who travel on them.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal as i do not wish to see eu regulation in this area.
in writing. ‒ today i voted on this legislative report which will help to harmonise the rules to make sure that new constructed cableways will meet the much needed requirements for health and safety, which will protect the passengers who travel on them as well as the workers on board. as many of my constituents go on holiday to ski and sports resorts across europe, where cableways are a common feature, this legislation should be able to make their holidays that bit less risky.
in writing. ‒ cableways are a common feature in ski and sports resorts across the eu and also play a key role in many urban transport systems. today’s vote will help to harmonise the rules to make sure that newly constructed cableways meet stringent health and safety requirements, protecting the passengers and workers who travel on them.
in writing. ‒ the generalised scheme of preferences plus (gsp+) is a trade scheme whereby the eu meddles in the internal politics of third countries by making tariff-free access to eu markets subject to implementation of international conventions – in areas including labour rights and related civil-society issues. according to the resolution’s authors, kyrgyzstan has failed to meet the (politicised) requirements necessary for gsp+ treatment. the commission disagrees, having granted kyrgyzstan eligibility for gsp+ in november 2015 following that country’s own-initiative application. the resolution’s authors call for repealing the commission delegated act that would activate gsp+ treatment for kyrgyzstan. though ukip believe the eu should not force countries to change their sovereign laws in order to trade favourably with it, kyrgyzstan made a choice on its own initiative to gain gsp+ treatment. on these grounds, ukip meps voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i object to the principle of delegated acts, but in this particular instance i felt that it would be unwise to oppose this act in case it were to damage kyrgyzstan’s trade with the european union. i therefore reluctantly abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the generalised scheme of preferences plus (gsp+) is a trade scheme whereby the eu meddles in the internal politics of third countries by making tariff-free access to eu markets subject to implementation of international conventions – in areas including labour rights and related civil-society issues. according to the resolution’s authors, kyrgyzstan has failed to meet the (politicised) requirements necessary for gsp+ treatment. the commission disagrees, having granted kyrgyzstan eligibility for gsp+ in november 2015 following that country’s own-initiative application. the resolution’s authors call for repealing the commission delegated act that would activate gsp+ treatment for kyrgyzstan. though ukip believe the eu should not force countries to change their sovereign laws in order to trade favourably with it, kyrgyzstan made a choice on its own initiative to gain gsp+ treatment. on these grounds, ukip meps voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection, which takes no account of the positive steps taken by kyrgyzstan to improve their human rights record including efforts to guarantee the independence of judges and the direct applicability of international treaties (including the convention on torture) before the courts. gsp+ is a very important tool in further motivating kyrgyzstan to continue reforms. indeed, it is the very objective of gsp+ to help poor and vulnerable countries like kyrgyzstan to improve their record in implementation of international conventions, despite strenuous economic conditions. so i feel it is counter-productive to exclude kyrgyzstan from gsp+.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i do not wish to see the eu in charge of british trade relations, but at the same time i do want britain to have trade relations with other nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion because, while i do sympathise with the need to highlight the abuses in kyrgyzstan, i do not believe that the problems flagged up in the file are going to be addressed by withdrawing this delegated act.
in writing. – today ukip voted in favour of the objection to delegated act on the specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based food and baby food. we in ukip believe that all infant products should be safe and used appropriately and that all parents and carers should receive accurate information about infant and young child feeding. we oppose misleading promotions and we believe in the importance of preventing child obesity and supporting zero tolerance for pesticides in infant food.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution which rejected a commission proposal to allow 30% of the energy in a baby food to be derived from sugar. this dangerous proposal flew in the face of health expert advice and was rightly rejected by the majority of parliament, and i was happy to support the rejection of the proposal. the world health organization (who) recommends that less than 10% of a food’s total energy intake should be from free sugars and a further 5% is recommended for additional health benefits. with worrying levels of childhood obesity in ireland, both north and south, and a warning from the who that ireland is due to become the most obese country in europe if current trends continue, it is right that this proposal, which should never have been put forward in the first place, was rejected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, primarily because i do not believe in the principle of delegated acts which place power in the hands of the unelected commission and take it away from the elected parliament. however, i do note that there are significant health concerns with sugary additives to baby food. i also oppose misleading advertising and labelling, although it is important to point out that such matters are already regulated at a national level, including through the advertising standards authority.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of the objection to the delegated act on the specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based food and baby food. we in ukip believe that all infant products should be safe and used appropriately and that all parents and carers should receive accurate information about infant and young child feeding. we oppose misleading promotions and we believe in the importance of preventing child obesity and supporting zero tolerance for pesticides in infant food.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour party colleagues, i voted in favour of this report. given the obesity epidemic and especially concerns about childhood obesity – one in three 11-year-olds in europe are overweight or obese – it is ridiculous to allow so much added sugar in baby food. giving very young children highly sweetened foods can also influence their developing taste preferences and make them more likely to consume unhealthy, sugary food in the future. labour meps want lower maximum sugar levels in baby food – we must ensure babies get the best start in life, and that means reducing the amount of sugar allowed in baby food.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s proposal to allow baby foods to contain sugar far in excess of who guidelines was simply ludicrous. the eu is facing an obesity crisis which brings with it massive problems for individuals and public health services. i fully support this house’s objection to the delegated act and congratulate my colleague mr taylor in steering this through parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection as the delegated regulation would allow baby foods to continue to contain up to three times more sugar than is recommended by the world health organization and it fails to protect infants and young children against obesity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution. given the obesity epidemic and especially concerns about childhood obesity – one in three 11-year-olds in europe are overweight or obese – it is ridiculous to allow so much added sugar in baby food. giving very young children highly sweetened foods can also influence their developing taste preferences and make them more likely to consume unhealthy, sugary food in the future. labour meps want lower maximum sugar levels in baby food – we must ensure babies get the best start in life, and that means reducing the amount of sugar allowed in baby food
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as i wish to see the delegated act stopped. this should be a matter for sovereign parliaments, not the eu commission.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution because i find that there are several issues with this delegated act. as this motion points out, there are not sufficient measures to protect infants and young children from obesity as the maximum level of sugar is far too high and should be in line with the recommendations of the world health organisation. furthermore, i feel that there were several issues with transparency in this delegated act and that the commission should delay the adoption of this delegated act until its own report on young-child formula is published and until the efsa has published its review regarding the evidence on sugar and the early introduction of processed foods in relation to optimal infant and young-child feeding recommendations.
in writing. ‒ on this i voted to call on the commission to rethink its strategy for lax limits on sugar. childhood obesity levels are far too high across europe and we need to tackle this problem at source. too high levels of sugar in children’s food. anything less is simply treating the symptom rather than the underlying cause. we cannot allow our children to be pumped full of sugar, and the best way to do this is to ensure that companies lower the level of sugar in children’s food. the commission must put the future of our children first and foremost, full stop.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the colombia peace process because, all though we are fully supportive of the peace talks and hope that a peaceful settlement can be reached, we do not believe that the eu should be taking positions, or interfering, in such matters.
in writing. ‒ most such reports coming before the european parliament adopt language which make it difficult for me to support as someone who opposes british membership of the european union. however, the text of this report was different. it recognised the problems in colombia and supported the peace process. it promoted action by individual member states, not by the european commission. it did not propose further european union funding. consequently, i was delighted to be able to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the colombian peace process, and call on eu member states to set up a trust fund to support the post-conflict phase, inter alia by funding the prosecution of war criminals and help for their victims to seek truth, justice, reparations and guarantees of non-repetition. it is vital that the peace process is accompanied by a determined effort to combat inequality and poverty, including fair solutions for people and communities forced off their lands.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it welcomes the agreement between the government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc), and calls on the national liberation army (eln) to commit to peace and to enter into similar negotiations. this agreement deserves the support of the european parliament, because we are probably witnessing the end of more than 50 years of violence in colombia.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution which welcomes the agreements made to date between the government of colombia and the farc to achieve peace in colombia and highlights the agreements on a comprehensive rural reform, political participation and democratic opening to build peace, solving the problem of illicit drugs and the establishing a special jurisdiction for peace, including a commission for the clarification of the truth, coexistence and non-repetition and the special unit for the search for people considered to have disappeared in the context of and on account of the conflict, in addition to the unit for the investigation and dismantling of criminal organisations.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this as i do not wish for the eu to get involved with foreign affairs.
in writing. ‒ in the last vote of today, i voted to support the talks that could put an end to 50 years of armed conflict, and the eu cannot let this historic moment get away.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, it was a hell of a result. an extraordinary result emerged from paris. i get the feeling that afterwards, rather like over-indulging in a night of celebration, many people woke up scratching their heads and trying to work out exactly what it was they had agreed to the night before, because in reality, some of those agreements are quite extraordinary, and rather like checking your phone to find those slightly embarrassing text messages or the slightly unusual tweets you sent when you should not have sent them, we have in fact discovered that inside this bold and extraordinary agreement is genuine boldness, and that represents the 1.5°c ambition which is being mentioned. now i listened to my colleagues, one for and one against these things, but whatever it means, we are moving forward at a pace and we must not lose sight of the destination we are going towards. i am conscious, however, that the european union’s ambitions themselves represent only a 70% chance of hitting our 2050 targets and i think again that ambition must be reconsidered. listening to commissioner arias cañete, who has much to be thankful for again in what he brought back from paris, this represents full decarbonisation. all of these things will be serious challenges for this chamber and we must embrace those challenges and we must live up to the ambitions minister fabius set in paris. congratulations, minister. it was an extraordinary achievement.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, as one of the poorest countries in the world, reliant upon imports for over 90% of its food even before the outbreak of the war, yemen is now facing an extreme humanitarian crisis and the un and other aid agencies have made it quite clear in their assessment that the situation is extremely dire. the eu and its member states have given much money in aid, with my own country, the uk, having invested some gbp 250 million in aid over the last five years. but now, however, we must consider the futility of sending such money to yemen only for these investments to be bombed and destroyed by the military attacks of saudi arabia. repeated sources show that public buildings, vital infrastructure and civilian areas have been tragically hit by the saudis’ very poorly targeted bombing campaigns, the results of which have been over 6 000 civilians killed to date. saudi arabia and iran’s ongoing race for regional, sectarian supremacy is growing ever bolder, and it is those in the periphery that are most suffering now as they become caught up in this terrible proxy war.
blue-card question.– you specifically mentioned the united kingdom, as i gather, trying to veto or prevent an investigation proposed by holland into war crimes in the yemen. do you have any direct evidence to suggest that saudi arabia has deliberately targeted hospitals or schools? there are reports, but if your government has got such evidence, why does it not go public about it? because clearly that is a very serious accusation, and i would be ashamed to think that the united kingdom would try and protect such a thing.
madam president, i am in close contact with the leaders of the south arabian assembly who work within the southern movement seeking an independent south yemen. i am disturbed that despite the best efforts of the southern movement and the militia attached to their cause, they remain under siege in aden from forces allied to sunni fundamentalists rather than iranian-backed houthis. in recent weeks southern movement supporters managed to free aden and the surrounding areas, but the lack of support from saudi arabia has seen the situation deteriorate again, allowing extremist forces back. i have been told that southern movement forces are ready and able to bring the south under control and that they have no intention of crossing into what was north yemen. they indicate that the potentially stabilising elements in yemen are the clans which can bring peace to their areas, yet the saudis will not allow this. throughout yemen the population is suffering and dying because saudi arabia and iran continue to play politics, ensuring no lasting solution to the yemeni crisis. if we are serious about securing for yemen a stable and hopeful future, international actors must actively engage with those on the ground rather than relying on the usual suspects who seem to go around in circles at such a tragic cost.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, turkey’s treatment of the kurdish people, not just within their own borders but also against those bravely fighting is in iraq and syria, is a scandal. all will have been pleased when the armed conflict between turkey and the pkk was brought to a mostly peaceful conclusion, yet now we are witnessing the turkish authorities rekindle that fight. what is worse is that, not content with president erdoğan’s attack on a free press and journalists, his wrath is now being directed towards the kurdish people. damningly, evidence mounts highlighting collusion between turkish authorities and islamic state in the region, including support for oppressive actions towards kurds. this is a timely reminder of the fundamental differences between turkish and european values and is further proof that turkey must never be allowed to join the european union.
madam president, the policies of the turkish government are becoming increasingly erratic and authoritarian. the recent arrest of 27 academics is an extension of the already routine harassment and detention of journalists. meanwhile, as a result of turkey’s military campaign against the pkk, which is banned by the eu as a terrorist organisation, hundreds of kurdish civilians have been killed and disproportionate curfews and the restriction of civil liberties are being imposed in kurdish areas. such a view is emblematic of the turkish authorities’ continued view that it is the kurds that should be viewed as the biggest threat in the region, rather than islamist terrorists such as isis. as evidenced by its policy in syria, turkey remains focused on preventing the emergence of a kurdish enclave, rather than fully committing itself to fighting isis. furthermore, there is evidence that turkey is failing to cooperate in stemming the flow of migrants to europe, and it is even, as reported in the british press, allegedly deporting some refugees back to syria. it is time that eu leaders called on turkey to live up to its nato and eu candidate commitments rather than continually apologising for its slide towards autocracy under president erdoğan. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i think i asked you, count lambsdorff, in the last debate over turkey whether you would be in favour of withholding any of the pre-accession funds, to which you gave me a very opaque answer. i will give you the simple answer that it remains the official party view of the conservative party and the british government that turkey should, at some stage, become a member of the european union. nevertheless, there are grave concerns about the change of course that turkey has adopted in the last few years and it is a very long way away from being fit to be a member of the european union at present. in the meantime, we have to ensure that britain remains a member of the european union.
madam president, i first visited this region of turkey some 15 years ago. a time of martial law, we saw ghost villages, the oppression of the people there, and now we are back to that point. as others have said, that golden possibility of a peace process has been thrown away, not least by a government that could not accept a pro-peace kurdish-led party beating the prohibitive 10% threshold in the election before last. but we have also seen nato allies permit turkish attacks on the pkk in exchange for access to bases in turkey for attacks on isis. the pkk is not isis. yes, it also has carried out attacks against civilians, that must be condemned, but this parity is a really important question that governments need to deal with in order for us to get back to a peace process, and an end to violence across the country, to be able to concentrate on the real threat.
in writing.– turkey is a potential eu member, a member of the euro-mediterranean partnership and an important trade partner of the eu. more recently, turkey has undertaken to play a key role in supporting the eu’s efforts to manage the refugee crisis and received eur 3 billion aid package. the eu has very close ties with turkey, but our cooperation and friendship shouldn’t stop us from openly criticising our partners when such criticism is due. turkey has launched a high-risk offensive against the pkk. the scale of the military operations being carried out in towns and cities by police and military units is truly shocking. in southeast turkey, civilians have been killed and several towns have been put under curfew for weeks on end. i’ve met with ms figen yuksekdag, co-chair of the hdp, and i was deeply concerned with her account of the events in turkey, including violent crackdowns on protests and rapidly shrinking space for political opposition. as turkey’s partner, the eu must support the peace process and call on both parties of the conflict to agree on an immediate ceasefire, end and denounce all violent acts and start negotiating in good faith for the end of hostilities.
blue-card question.– you talk about wanting a democratic russia, which is very honourable, but surely this union should get its own house in order. how can we lecture the russians when this union ignored the constitution votes in france and the netherlands and ignored the lisbon treaty votes in ireland? surely this place should get its own house in order before lecturing anyone else.
blue-card question.– i notice in your speech you speak about respecting independence and sovereignty of the countries we are discussing, but then you talk about association with the european union, which even its fondest supporters say is about pooling independence and sovereignty, and those of us who dislike it say it is about giving it up altogether. so there is a complete contradiction there in what you are suggesting. are you saying that i should jump out of the frying pan of the russian control into the fire of the eu?
madam president, may i firstly welcome the commitment shown by georgia, moldova and ukraine to their association agreements and the dcftas with the european union. as a co-chair of the eu-georgia parliamentary association committee, i would like to particularly highlight the added value of the association agreement and the dcfta to georgia’s reform processes. already we are seeing the early results of these agreements, with georgia having a good pace of approximation of georgian legislation to eu standards. the latest trade statistics show that eu imports from georgia have risen by 15% despite negative economic trends in the region. i would also like to congratulate georgia on the progress made in all areas covered by the visa liberalisation action plan, as confirmed by the commission in december; with georgia on its own merits now meeting all the requirements for visa-free travel, we therefore swiftly expect as co-legislators that the european commission will submit to us the legislative proposal needed so that we can demonstrate our commitment to georgia.
madam president, during a recent trip to ukraine i discovered that, despite two revolutions, the democracy people crave is still elusive and the old establishment still clings to power. this situation creates three major problems. firstly, the greatest obstacle to democracy is corruption. this is endemic and seems to blight from what i saw and the people i spoke to, all levels of the political and judicial system. secondly, there is the problem of political prisoners held as scapegoats for systemic failure. finally, there are the ukrainian people who continue to feel let down, disenfranchised and ignored by the political elite. but with rampant inflation, falling pensions, an average wage of only usd 200 a month and soaring energy prices eating into their salary, who can blame them? it therefore beggars belief that, due to its obsessive, expansionist policies and empire—building, the eu continues to betray the ideas of the maidan revolution by propping up a corrupt and uncaring government with nearly eur 2 billion in loans. the fact is, despite protestations to the contrary from officials desperate to expand the eu’s influence ever further east – particularly in one of the most oil- and gas-rich territories in the world – what the people of the ukraine crave is independent democracy. instead, they have been offered the new form of dictatorship which the eu represents.
madam president, after the setbacks of the riga summit, tonight there are glimmers of hope that the prospects for the eastern partnership are being rekindled with the completion of the ratification of georgia’s association agreement by all 28 member states last month and the free trade deal with ukraine officially coming into effect at the start of the year. the minsk agreement may have been questioned, but it has not been destroyed and, alongside the efforts the commissioner referred to on transnistria, we should welcome political developments in moldova this very day, which look to have brought a political crisis to an end. however, it is clear in moldova, and in ukraine in particular, that it is necessary for the eu to undertake deep engagement in order to strengthen europe-facing movements in these countries. i do hope that the country which suffered most from the mh17 disaster will support political progress in ukraine, which could help prevent such terrible events from happening again. on georgia, selective justice and corruption are problems in all the countries of the neighbourhood, not one country. the epp should not engage in selective politics, but support georgia’s aspirations too. finally, regarding our neighbours’ neighbours, once again i place on record that my group supports the commission’s tentative work on studying possibilities for relations between the european union and the eurasian union. and we support political dialogue with moscow, but not to bargain over sovereign countries or to weaken our approach on sanctions. socialists and democrats do not deny or underestimate different perspectives, but we do want to make genuine attempts to bridge them.
madam president, on a point of order, can you explain under what rule under the rules of procedure you as the chair are allowed to give editorial comment on the previous speaker’s speech? as the president, and what one would assume is a neutral chair, what rules give you the right to give editorial comment on what any member of this house says? can you explain the rules that give you that power, please? (applause from efdd group)
madam president, i want to start by saying that i fully welcome the agreement between ukraine and the european union and despite what we have heard from the other side of the house, we need to keep stressing that this is an agreement between two sovereign trading partners. no one has forced this agreement on ukraine. no one has forced this agreement on the european union. we have come to it voluntarily and the aim is to improve trade and investment between our two groups, and also to ensure that the living standards of the people of ukraine are improved as a result of this agreement. can it succeed? well it is early days but i think that if we look at the agreements with georgia and moldova, we can see that we have a good starting point. trade between those two countries and the european union has increased significantly since the comprehensive trade agreements came into being. of course, that is of itself not enough and we have to do more to make sure that ordinary citizens of georgia and moldova benefit from the trade agreements, that living standards are improved in their country. likewise with ukraine. our partnership there gives us the opportunity to start working with our ukrainian friends, to tackle corruption, which is a serious problem in that country, to improve the price of energy available to ordinary citizens, which has gone up as a result of changes there. we need to make sure that energy poverty does not exist in that country. finally, let me say that although it is for the dutch people to decide what they do in their referendum, i hope they will not give a free gift to the russians who have tried to divide this continent and have also done that partly by financing some of the right-wing putin friends we have on the other side of this chamber.
madam president, i am delighted this resolution welcomes the efforts that georgia has made to implement the association agreement with its dcfta. i also welcome the fact that, since this agreement, trade between the eu and georgia has significantly increased. but this agreement is about far more than trade. it is about shared values and deepening our long-standing relationship. we need to support the work that has been done, and is being done, to develop a free and open political environment and to achieve social cohesion. the social dimension of these agreements is vital to building and maintaining the confidence of citizens in our shared values. there is still work to be done, but without doubt, progress is being made, in particular through dialogue and reconciliation. finally, i welcome the commission’s progress report on the visa liberalisation action plan and look forward to the related legislative proposals and approval.
madam president, thanks to ukip, this year, or maybe next year, the united kingdom will have its referendum on our membership of the european union. but we are not alone. this year, in april, the netherlands will vote on its accession deal with the ukraine, and my plea to dutch patriots across the pond is: put a spanner in the works. say ‘no’ to this institution; say ‘no’ to this union that disrespects your democracy. it was not so long ago that you said ‘no’ to the european constitution, but this place decided to ignore that, dump the constitution and rebrand it as the lisbon treaty. a ‘no’ vote in the netherlands means that the united kingdom has a fillip going into its referendum. my plea to the british people watching this now is: ‘we are not alone’. millions of people across this union, across this continent, are sick and tired of this place, this institution. we yearn for our democracy back; we yearn for our borders to be returned and we yearn for the peoples of our nation states to be in control. we are public servants and it is time the people had the final say.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i am very disappointed that this parliament has opted to use the title ‘systematic mass murder’ in what is clearly genocide. last year i visited the kurdistan region of iraq and met with iraqi christian refugees. their plight as well as that of the yazidis and other minorities is clearly due to a concerted campaign by isis to systematically rid iraq and the wider middle east of all non-sunni muslims. religious minorities have seen their communities in the areas controlled by isis or daesh destroyed, as men have been systematically executed and women have been captured as sex slaves. yesterday’s report by the unhrc highlighted these details in no uncertain terms and noted that such crimes, and i quote: ʻmay in some instances amount to war crimes, crimes against humanity and possibly genocideʼ. it is time for us now to take action that will remove such equivocation of labelling these crimes as such and put pressure on the unsc and the p-5 to refer isis and its leadership under the terms of command responsibility to the icc. i understand from my meetings with a krg that the iraqi government is... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, you are abusing my privilege as an mep to speak at the velocity i wish to speak at and deliver my speech in. i am very sorry, that is not your prerogative and i wish to appeal to president schulz. it is the second time you have stopped me mid-track while i have been speaking on a very important topic. most people here can perfectly well understand my english. can i please complete my speech?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i would like today to raise the tragic issue of the persecution of christians in refugee camps. after escaping the horrors most people only see on their tv screens, many christians face targeted persecution because of their faith in un-registered camps right across the middle east. perhaps even more shockingly, this behaviour has been witnessed in germany, with families returning to iraq rather than suffer the continued persecution they face by radical islamists here in europe. this is for those christians that are lucky enough to make it to europe. the persecution in these camps means that many christians are forced to leave. it is from these camps that legitimate refugee cases are processed. the situation they face is so bad that only a tiny percentage of christians are processed by the un. this is scandalous at a time when they are at their most vulnerable and are supposed to actually be in a safe haven; surely these people should not have to continue to suffer in this way.
mr president, i welcome this debate in the house tonight. it is absolutely right that we in this parliament, who enjoy the benefits of peaceful representative democracy in our member states, should stand united in condemning the mass murder of religious minorities by daesh. weekly, we here often see images of mass killings, beheadings, gang rapes, hangings, and endless other barbaric acts perpetrated by fanatical jihadists. however, this parliament should go further and recognise this barbarity for what it is: genocide and war crimes directed against christians and other religious minorities. this afternoon i was pleased to attend the presentation by open doors of their watch list of those countries where christians are most persecuted. i was struck by the simple fact that persecution against christians is rising year—on—year. they estimated that, before the war in syria, 400 000 christians were in aleppo. today there are 6 000 … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, let me start by thanking the high representative for her statement in this matter. people in iraq and syria are consistently being raped, tortured or killed on a daily basis by the so-called islamic state. according to the qur’an, ‘whosoever kills a soul, it shall be as if he had killed all humanity and he who saves a life, it shall be as if he had given life to all humanity’. isis destroys places of worship, mosques, churches and other places of cultural heritage, but the qur’an teaches that the places of worship are supposed to be not only respected, but protected and defended. isis eradicates the ethnic and cultural minorities who have coexisted for centuries, as they do not subscribe to their twisted beliefs. while the qur’an reads that there is no compulsion in faith, the islam that i and the millions of muslims in europe and around the world follow rejects the inhumane methods of isis. but rejecting it is not enough. we must act. whether in europe or the middle east, communities are stronger when they work together to combat terrorist propaganda and to administer programmes that celebrate diversity and empower minorities. everyone has a right to fundamental freedoms and respect of their human rights, regardless of their beliefs or ethnicity. it is our duty to stand in solidarity with the oppressed.
mr president, isis’s genocide of religious minorities raises two questions: why, and what can be done about it? the cause is ideological. some say that isis represents a perversion of islam. in fact, it represents a literalist interpretation of the qur’an. the qur’an speaks of making war on infidels, killing infidels and striking terror into the hearts of infidels. the qur’an endorses beheadings, crucifixions and slavery. even the systematic rape of non-muslim women is justified by the verse that says: ‘those you have taken with your right hand you may possess’. isis represents a revival of the original ethos of the mohammedan cult that conquered its way up to france before being driven back in the 8th century. thank god, not allah, most muslims do not follow this literalist interpretation. how can isis be defeated? a military defeat needs a coalition between the west and those islamic countries that do not want to live under the barbarism of isis. isis’s funding and supply lines must be terminated. the civilised world has to realise that literalist islam has no place in liberal democratic society. we should end mass immigration from islamic countries and set about integrating those muslims already here. and why do the leaders of the christian churches not recognise a recruitment opportunity and launch an ideological crusade to convert european muslims to christianity?
mr president, daesh has been systematically killing, torturing, kidnapping and sexually enslaving members of minority groups, including christians and yazidis, in iraq and syria. only this week, 400 people were killed or kidnapped by them in syria, and today it was confirmed that the oldest christian monastery in iraq was razed to the ground. but we should also have other areas – like pakistan and afghanistan, where the taliban have been rebranding into daesh – on our radar. the eu and the un must take urgent action to protect the shias, sikhs, hindus, muslims, christians and other minority groups there from extremist attacks. my west midlands colleague rob flello mp has been pressing the uk government to call on the un to treat the daesh atrocities against religious minorities as a genocide. i urge you, high representative, to back this initiative. many voices at the un speak louder than one, and this will help send a clear message to members of daesh that they will face justice for the atrocities that they are committing now.
mr president, i wish we could discuss blasting isis back to the stone age where their barbaric ideology belongs, but instead we are reaping the consequences of a shocking foreign policy. we are left with harmful tory government defence cuts from an administration that prefers foreign aid to strong armed forces, and we have a leader of the labour party who would negotiate with these isis animals. britain can do so much better than this, and it is time for us to reassert ourselves and say to these animals who threaten our freedom and our way of life: you will never win.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, at this moment we should be focused on combating a real terrorist threat and, in particular, on assisting france and other close allies that have been under recent terrorist attack, not trying to advance misplaced eu defence ambitions by federalists in this house. the ecr group therefore strongly opposes the joint resolution calling for permanent structured cooperation in defence, the establishment of a permanent eu headquarters to plan collective defence, and movement towards an autonomous european defence union, by definition separate from nato. this is dangerous nonsense, as realists understand only too well. we have long warned about the dangers of eu meddling in defence, which can only be at the expense of our national sovereignty and of nato, the indispensable alliance credible to our potential enemies and deeply reassuring to our allies. many were dismayed when the lisbon treaty included a mutual defence clause – a cosmetic imitation of nato’s article 5 but with no foundation. the eu itself has no capability to provide collective defence. in any case, 22 eu countries are nato members, and the small remainder, with just one exception, have participated in some way in nato activity. there is no excuse for the inclusion of article 42(7) in an eu treaty and certainly not for its invocation, unless of course your aim is to be provocative or you want deliberately to see nato sidelined.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, in the uk we are always being told that we will not have an eu army, but the aftermath of the paris attacks removed any last traces of doubt anyone might have over where we are heading. even tony blair is now openly calling for an end to national sovereignty by giving control to brussels of the troops that he, more than any other prime minister, sent to war. personally, whenever tony blair says something – particularly about the military – i think that the best advice is to do the opposite. unlike mr blair, i took the oath of allegiance to her majesty the queen when i was a serving soldier. i think you would be hard pressed to find anyone who would do the same for mr juncker. we already have the foundations with a mutual defence clause, but what would happen should we have another conflict where europe is divided? what if argentina, drunk on the support of jeremy corbyn, decided to attack the falkland islands again? would france stop all defence sales and join in a uk-led defence of the islands? the most important role any government plays is to protect its country. that is why, with their support of the lisbon treaty, uk mps did the british people a huge .... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this is, as you know, the first time the mutual defence clause is being invoked, and how we deal with it will serve as a precedent. we need to take a long-term view and develop concrete guidelines that will allow us to respond fast and effectively in the future. let this also be an opportunity to strengthen cooperation on defence and intelligence- sharing. it is difficult to justify to our taxpayers that eu member states collectively spend many times more on defence than any other major powers, yet are militarily less effective, simply because we do not work together. how can we justify terrorists slipping under the radar because we failed to share life-saving information? how do we tackle the flow of firearms on the black market without blocking cross-border circulation vital to our economy? eu cooperation provides the answer. this does not mean taking sovereignty away from national governments, nor stepping aside of nato – a point made very clear in article 42(7). it means being smart: supporting clusters, role specialisation, joint research and procurement, increasing market integration. i urge the council to make defence cooperation a priority.
mr president, as the rapporteur on corporate responsibility, i hope the forthcoming session of the un human rights council and this parliament’s delegation to it will continue to advance the priority given to business and human rights. as paragraph 28 of our resolution makes clear, this parliament believes the european union and its member states should engage constructively in the intergovernmental working group on a legally-binding instrument. previously the eu left the room after the first day, which i understand may be subject to some criticism in the report of the un working group, which is due to be presented in march. preventing and boycotting a human rights mechanism is not where europe should be. our resolution makes clear that taking part in what is an open-ended working group is not an alternative to the accountability and remedy project of the high commissioner on domestic law remedies, nor is it an alternative to promoting the un guiding principles on business and human rights, to which the eu member states could demonstrate their commitment by completing the process and agreeing national action plans. i understand the eu may even be considering a resolution in geneva criticising the un working group. this is the path of confrontation with which this parliament cannot agree. for my group, i do not agree with all of the proposals being discussed in the working group. for example, i believe human rights should apply to all business and not just the transnational corporations. but surely europe must be in the room to diplomatically express our disagreement and to demonstrate to others what we so often say to them: to be prepared to listen to different views. and the final part of what i want to say: i will respond to what my friend and colleague, mr preda, says about paragraph 89. he makes it a key vote, and his group says they will vote against the resolution if it fails. what does that paragraph say? it supports compliance with international humanitarian law and international human rights law; it calls for the viability of the two-state solution; and it calls for support for the special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the palestinian territories. i say to him and his group, in all truth: we have a consensus about moving forward on middle east peace. we believe that voting for those principles is right to get peace between israel and palestine. if he and his group choose to disagree on that in the course of this resolution, they are wrong.
in writing.– the situation in burundi is extremely serious. violence is escalating inside the country and there is growing evidence of arms being distributed among some of those living in refugee camps in neighbouring states. given the situation in burundi and the implications for the wider east african community if the situation does not improve it is vital that the eu makes this a priority for unhcr sessions this year.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the first rule of any government is the protection of its people, and the protection of the people of europe from terrorism is at least something, i recognise, you understand as being serious. but in order to deal with the problem of terrorism you must at first know who your enemy is and who your friends are. you must know where they share your values and where they come from and this is where the analysis of the european union is failing. you have to understand the problem, you have to understand where they are, and you have to understand what they are doing here. the first part of the problem, minister, is that in the language of yourself and of the commissioner – i quote from you: ʻthe vast majority of migrants are fleeing terrorism’ – that quite frankly is not true. we know that the vast majority of migrants are economic migrants; the vast majority of asylum seekers are genuinely people fleeing terrorism: that is the first part of the problem you must address. the second part of the problem, you must understand, is that the open borders that you have created and are not willing to challenge – you do not know who has come in, you do not know where they are and you do not know how they get here – creates the last form of terrorism, the internal terrorism that the women in cologne and bonn and berlin and sweden and all other parts of europe that suffered over new year’s eve will have to face. that is your problem. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – sir, may i add that your english is excellent in comparison to my understanding and knowledge of your language, and i welcome that. you are quite right that terrorism is an international problem. it stretches and hurts and pains families across the globe, and yes, we have our own problems with individuals here – and we have that on a home-grown basis. but the issue that we are facing today is isis and the evil ideology that is attempting to turn man against man and woman against woman, and we have to have a solution – not just a european union solution, but a global solution. that is the way forward, and the only way that we can tackle it.
mr president, can i first of all say that 2015 has brought back to us the serious problems we face with terrorism and especially in europe. i think we have to face the reality that europe has a serious problem with its borders, especially the schengen borders. that has got to be dealt with because nowhere in europe is completely safe anymore, while we may like to think it is. where i come from in northern ireland we suffered over four decades of terrorism. i survived an assassination attempt myself and i want to make it very clear in this house that i am not a zombie, and those who talk the way they talked in this debate should, i think, really hang their heads in shame. the victims of terrorism have been forgotten about time and time again. they are not thought about, they are forgotten about, as we go on to the next atrocity, the next crime. that is what cannot be allowed to happen. can i say above all else we need in europe good information exchange and cooperation right across borders and between all the police forces in europe to combat this.
mr president, let us be blunt about the current situation: the terrorist threat is effectively civil war – incoming individuals joining already internally—based dissidents, targeting key infrastructure to create maximum fear and disruption within our societies. we must, however, recognise that terrorists now control territory from which to export their violent ideology and have access to millions of dollars to fund their activities. within the eu, as well as the uk, their best resource is schengen. borderless travel facilitates weapons, explosives and unfettered terrorist—ideology exportation as well as people. second only to schengen is a banking network that facilitates the financing of terrorism. so, commission, in your deliberations please face the facts. isolate by ending schengen, and starve by taking steps to tackle the financing as two key means of combating this terrorist threat.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the eu now has the opportunity over the coming years to negotiate a modern, 21st-century trade agreement with like-minded partners: australia and new zealand. these are two commonwealth countries with which we share similar values, levels of development and historical and cultural ties. they are also committed to the multilateral agenda at the wto. at the same time, australia and new zealand hold equal ambitions for opening new trading markets at bilateral level, offering the eu the chance to strengthen asia—pacific relations. as we have heard in public meetings, they are approaching these talks with a blank canvas in areas ranging from geographical indications to investment protection. we have a real opportunity, therefore, to negotiate an ambitious new model for a trade deal that is bold enough to tackle modern day issues – issues such as the digital economy, e-commerce and rules of origin, and of course, a dedicated chapter for smes, for which trade agreements provide the most benefits. i would therefore be supporting these negotiations through the scoping exercises, and i hope that we can quickly conclude a successful agreement.
mr president, i also warmly welcome the commission’s intention to open negotiations on these two free trade agreements. the asia-pacific region where, bear in mind, 90% of world growth is estimated to happen over the next decade, is vital for us and with their european heritage, their relative proximity to the asian market and their membership of the tpp, australia and new zealand can be very important partners for us. given their experience in trade negotiations, these agreements have the potential to be exemplary. they can, for example, be very speedy and efficient, which is not something we can say about other trade negotiations. they have the potential to be of a very high quality with a strong, sustainable development chapter providing a template for the wider asia-pacific region and, given australia’s experience in particular with investment, i think they should prove very sympathetic to tackling the flaws in the existing investor-state dispute system and that gives us an opportunity to have a high-quality investment chapter in this agreement. so for all these reasons, it is good that we are making progress with these two countries. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– in july 2013, the australian government formally responded to the uk government’s balance of competence review, stating australia’s wish for the uk to remain inside the eu. as we now debate the prospects of an eu trade deal with australia and new zealand, do you think that a uk exit from the eu could harm our vital economic relations with these two old friends and allies?
blue-card answer. – well, absolutely. there are some in this house who have argued that we should create an alternative free trade zone with our former empire and current commonwealth partners. what this these negotiations prove, and what the agreements with singapore and canada and most of our african agreements demonstrate, is that the commonwealth values our links with the european union and wants to trade with a wider european union, benefiting them, benefiting the uk, and benefiting the european union. so far from deserting the european union, it helps our commonwealth cousins that we remain in.
madam president, as vice-chair of the delegation for relations with australia and new zealand, i welcome the opportunity to have this debate and the positive news that talks are now under way with a view to concluding these trade agreements with both australia and new zealand. these discussions are long overdue and too often spurious, and protectionist reasons are used by some member states and parliamentarians in this house to prevent progress, as we have heard today. at one stage these countries were even challenged on their human rights record, which is quite disgraceful. it should be remembered that thousands of members of the armed forces of these countries lost their lives during the 20th century liberating this continent and therefore, commissioner, i now expect these talks to move forward quickly and these ftas to be concluded as quickly as possible. this is a win-win situation and there will be benefits on both sides.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for opening trade negotiations. i would like to make two points: first, i acknowledge the concerns of some sectors of the agricultural industry and, while it is clear they must be accommodated sensitively, there is a danger that these are being largely overstated. i want to stress that this is a win-win deal, bringing equal benefit to both sides. secondly, this deal is about much more than trade: it is about shared values, about strong emotional ties, and about strong historic ties – ties which should have been recognised long ago. i urge the commissioner, therefore, to press ahead as quickly as possible with this fta.
mr president, it is a wonderful thing that our constituents have the right to petition this house for non-judicial support in cases in which they feel that they have been wronged or powerful interests need checking. in my first year as a member of the committee on petitions, the voice of people from across europe has clearly been heard, raising concrete concerns about the ttip negotiations, violations of eu workers’ rights and historic miscarriages of justice such as the petition brought by the 1984 cammell laird strikers. i have been struck that many of the petitioners who come to our committee are desperate, as all other avenues have been blocked or cut off. in hearing, debating and advocating on behalf of our constituents, the committee has an essential role to play in european democracy. that is why we should promote the role of petitions in the work of the european parliament. we should demonstrate as meps in this house that we are here by the people and for the people.
madam president, it is interesting to see opposition to ttip, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, in this document and it is also encouraging. thousands of my constituents wrote to me expressing serious concern that ttip will open up our nhs to private competition and creeping privatisation, but also concern about the inter-state dispute settlement which will allow private companies to sue national governments for changes in policy that result in loss of profits. this is simply outrageous and i hope that the committee and the members of this house see sense and that this deal is dropped. but there is also a fail-safe for my constituents who do not want ttip. we have our referendum coming up, so anyone watching this will know that if you want to dump ttip, dump the eu when we have our referendum.
mr president, this issue of stabilisation of kosovo is a very important element in the progress of the european union’s arrangements for peace and stability in the mediterranean region. kosovo has gone through an extraordinary amount of turmoil and there have been instances where we have looked at kosovo as an example of a country that can go from a position of conflict to a position of peace. given that we have ignored and forgotten some of the issues that have been relating to kosovo for some time because we have been preoccupied with other matters in other directions, it is salutary for us to remember that today we have brought back to the forefront of our minds a country which has suffered an incredible amount and that we have to extend the hand of friendship wherever possible in that regard.
mr. chairman, i also voted for the proposed agreement. although five european union countries still do not recognise kosovo as an independent state, i am convinced that what my colleagues have already said is in our interest. it is in our interest to stabilise the situation in the balkans and to offer the countries in our immediate neighbourhood relations which will help them in their economic development and in the long term give them the possibility of joining the european union. the fact that kosovo's path to the european union is probably not entirely clear, it is not short, it will take longer for the necessary and necessary reforms of the state and of the whole society to take place in kosovo, that is obvious. but we are giving kosovo a clear chance today, a clear opportunity to work more closely with us, with the european union, and in the long term to start working towards european union membership. and that, i think, is extremely important for the balkans and therefore for all of europe. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. – ukip does not support the further expansion of the eu, or the development of eu foreign relations or a foreign policy. the signing of this agreement represents developments in all these areas. as such we voted against.
in writing. – on the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement (saa) we supported an abstention. we obviously support enhanced political dialogue and cooperation, especially strengthening of democratic principles and human rights. the saa also includes provisions aiming to promote european standards in areas such as competition, procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, but it is vague as to what it means and to what extent when it states that it aims to establish a free trade area, or closer trade integration. however while the report was ratified in the kosovo parliament, it was boycotted and not supported by all the opposition parties, and the main opposition leader and mp, albin kurti, was arrested illegally for his parliamentary stances.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should be a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i voted against. this legislative resolution obliges the republic of kosovo and its people to meet eu—imposed obstacles before being allowed to trade with the eu. i believe that the deepening of economic and trade relations between kosovo and the united kingdom is a matter for her majesty’s government.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the further expansion of the eu, or the development of eu foreign relations or a foreign policy. the signing of this agreement represents developments in all these areas. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the further expansion of the eu, or the development of eu foreign relations or a foreign policy. the signing of this agreement represents developments in all these areas. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the further expansion of the eu, or the development of eu foreign relations or a foreign policy. the signing of this agreement represents developments in all these areas. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the further expansion of the eu, or the development of eu foreign relations or a foreign policy. the signing of this agreement represents developments in all these areas. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement as an important step, helping to stabilise the western balkans and enhance economic development, the rule of law and democracy in kosovo. it is vital that we continue to work on reducing the potential for further conflict in this part of europe, and improving the long-term prosperity and stability of kosovo is central to that aim.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the further expansion of the eu, or the development of eu foreign relations or a foreign policy. the signing of this agreement represents developments in all these areas. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving consent to the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement, an important first formal step in kosovo’s integration into europe – a key contribution to the development of a safe and prosperous neighbourhood for the eu. the agreement will form the backbone of strengthened political association and economic integration between the eu and kosovo. the agreement enhances eu-kosovo political dialogue and trade relations, and fosters closer cooperation in many sectors, including energy, the environment, and justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the european parliamentary labour party, i voted in favour of this report. the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and kosovo is a very important first formal step towards the eu accession process and the european integration path of kosovo. the saa provides a powerful incentive for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. the saa will create opportunities for investment, growth, business development, good governance through the application of european standards and approximation to eu laws.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the further expansion of the eu, or the development of eu foreign relations or a foreign policy. the signing of this agreement represents developments in all these areas. as such we voted against.
in writing. – my colleagues and i do not support the further expansion of the eu, or the development of eu foreign relations or a foreign policy. the signing of this agreement represents developments in all these areas. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the agreement, as it will bring new possibilities for kosovo to strengthen relations with the eu and thus contribute to the stabilisation of the whole region. the agreement enhances eu-kosovo political dialogue and trade relations, and fosters closer cooperation in many sectors, including energy, the environment, and justice and home affairs. it also has provisions aiming to promote eu standards in areas such as competition, procurement, intellectual property, consumer protection and good governance.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement: it is a key document in the stabilisation and association process. it sets out rights and obligations and provides a powerful incentive for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. the saa will create opportunities for investment, growth and business development while strengthening, at the same time, good governance through the application of european standards and approximation to eu laws, including in the framework of the establishment of the free trade area. furthermore, it creates opportunities for enhancing contacts between people and experts in sectors such as education, environment, culture and the combatting of crime and trafficking, and it foresees a further strengthening of relations and cooperation with neighbouring countries, thus contributing to stability in the region.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the further expansion of the eu, or the development of eu foreign relations or a foreign policy. the signing of this agreement represents developments in all these areas. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the further expansion of the eu, or the development of eu foreign relations or a foreign policy. the signing of this agreement represents developments in all these areas. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this agreement today because i believe that the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo is an incredibly important first formal step towards the accession process and integration path for the republic of kosovo. this agreement creates a lot of conditionality pressures for the republic and gives the institutional structures an incentive to implement and institutionalise these reforms.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement is a crucial first formal step towards the eu accession process path for the republic of kosovo and i was proud to vote in favour of it. this agreement creates the groundwork for extended cooperation between the eu and kosovo in a variety of sectors including education, energy, the environment and justice, while also providing assistance in the critical area of human rights development. this will build on the long-standing relationship between the republic of kosovo and the eu, as will the quick introduction of the visa-free regime for kosovo citizens. it is vital that we buttress security in the western balkans at this time of international instability. no one wishes to see a return to the situation of the instability of late 1990s. it is vital that the eu continues to help kosovars build internal stability and promote external harmony with their balkan neighbours.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should have been a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that this appointment was brought before the parliament and passed without a vote. had i been given a vote on this matter, i would have voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the set-up of the committee that will investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration of eu law, following the scandal which revealed that devices were installed in cars to distort emission measurements. it is crucial we now collect and analyse information to identify where authorities failed on this file. citizens deserve to know and we expect full transparency.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the european parliamentary labour party, i voted for the proposed appointments of members of the committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the appointment of the members of a committee of inquiry into car makers’ breaches of eu rules on car emission tests. the committee will investigate alleged failures by eu member states and the commission to enforce eu standards.
in writing. – ukip did not support the ratification of association agreements with ukraine, georgia or moldova. the signing of these agreements contributed to increased tensions between the eu and russia and contributed to the increased insecurity in eastern europe and the caucasus. they are also seen as a step towards future eu membership. as such we voted against. ukip were however pleased to note that amendment 17 called for the eu to ensure that the upcoming vote in the netherlands on the eu-ukraine agreement is respected.
in writing. – on the motion for a resolution on the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) with georgia-ukraine-moldova i voted against the joint motion for a resolution and in favour of the gue resolution and all of the gue amendments. the gue amendments and resolution focus on two things - the fact that the eu should not have such an agreement with ukraine on the basis of anti-democratic government actions and abuses of human rights (such as child labour) and the negative impact of the agreement on working people and the poor in these countries. the role pushing this agreement plays in feeding conflict in the neighbourhood was another good reason to reject the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should have been a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i voted against this resolution. the united kingdom should be able to sign trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine without the interference of the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip did not support the ratification of association agreements with ukraine, georgia or moldova. the signing of these agreements contributed to increased tensions between the eu and russia and contributed to the increased insecurity in eastern europe and the caucasus. they are also seen as a step towards future eu membership. as such we voted against. ukip were however pleased to note that amendment 17 called for the eu to ensure that the upcoming vote in the netherlands on the eu-ukraine agreement is respected.
in writing. ‒ ukip did not support the ratification of association agreements with ukraine, georgia or moldova. the signing of these agreements contributed to increased tensions between the eu and russia and contributed to the increased insecurity in eastern europe and the caucasus. they are also seen as a step towards future eu membership. as such we voted against. ukip were however pleased to note that amendment 17 called for the eu to ensure that the upcoming vote in the netherlands on the eu-ukraine agreement is respected.
in writing. ‒ ukip did not support the ratification of association agreements with ukraine, georgia or moldova. the signing of these agreements contributed to increased tensions between the eu and russia and contributed to the increased insecurity in eastern europe and the caucasus. they are also seen as a step towards future eu membership. as such we voted against. ukip were however pleased to note that amendment 17 called for the eu to ensure that the upcoming vote in the netherlands on the eu-ukraine agreement is respected.
in writing. ‒ ukip did not support the ratification of association agreements with ukraine, georgia or moldova. the signing of these agreements contributed to increased tensions between the eu and russia and contributed to the increased insecurity in eastern europe and the caucasus. they are also seen as a step towards future eu membership. as such we voted against. ukip were however pleased to note that amendment 17 called for the eu to ensure that the upcoming vote in the netherlands on the eu-ukraine agreement is respected.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the aspirations of georgia, moldova and ukraine to continue their economic and political development and reform and their desire to create stronger ties with the rest of europe. all sides can benefit from this positive progress in relations, and many businesses in the uk are already operating in or seeking to expand into these growing markets.
in writing. ‒ ukip did not support the ratification of association agreements with ukraine, georgia or moldova. the signing of these agreements contributed to increased tensions between the eu and russia and contributed to the increased insecurity in eastern europe and the caucasus. they are also seen as a step towards future eu membership. as such we voted against. ukip were however pleased to note that amendment 17 called for the eu to ensure that the upcoming vote in the netherlands on the eu-ukraine agreement is respected.
in writing. ‒ along with my fellow labour meps, i voted in favour of this report. the s&d group fully supports the implementation of the association agreements. we call for greater attention to be paid to the social dimension of the partnership. we insist on the need for more efforts in the field of the rule of law, the fight against corruption, and the consolidation of democracy.
in writing. ‒ ukip did not support the ratification of association agreements with ukraine, georgia or moldova. the signing of these agreements contributed to increased tensions between the eu and russia and contributed to the increased insecurity in eastern europe and the caucasus. they are also seen as a step towards future eu membership. as such we voted against. ukip were however pleased to note that amendment 17 called for the eu to ensure that the upcoming vote in the netherlands on the eu-ukraine agreement is respected.
in writing. – ukip did not support the ratification of association agreements with ukraine, georgia or moldova. the signing of these agreements contributed to increased tensions between the eu and russia and contributed to the increased insecurity in eastern europe and the caucasus. they are also seen as a step towards future eu membership. as such my fellow colleagues and i voted against. ukip were however pleased to note that amendment 17 called for the eu to ensure that the upcoming vote in the netherlands on the eu-ukraine agreement is respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as it recommends that the reforms related to the association agreements and deep and comprehensive free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine are continued and enhanced. the report underlines that political stability und concrete reform programmes are necessary if the eu’s eastern neighbours want to benefit fully from their association agreements.
in writing. ‒ through these association agreements, the eu offers its eastern neighbours comprehensive political co-operation and economic integration without eu membership. the eu’s eastern neighbours need to implement far-reaching reforms in the economic and trade sector, as well as in legal approximation in order to benefit fully from this offer of co-operation. the more reforms take place, the more benefits will be generated by the association agreements and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreements. this means that these agreements constitute an ambitious programme for modernisation, which is why the eu also offers financial and technical support to help implement them. in its resolution, the european parliament underlines that political stability and concrete reform programmes are necessary if georgia, moldova und ukraine want to benefit fully from their association agreements.
in writing. ‒ ukip did not support the ratification of association agreements with ukraine, georgia or moldova. the signing of these agreements contributed to increased tensions between the eu and russia and contributed to the increased insecurity in eastern europe and the caucasus. they are also seen as a step towards future eu membership. as such we voted against. ukip were however pleased to note that amendment 17 called for the eu to ensure that the upcoming vote in the netherlands on the eu-ukraine agreement is respected.
in writing. ‒ ukip did not support the ratification of association agreements with ukraine, georgia or moldova. the signing of these agreements contributed to increased tensions between the eu and russia and contributed to the increased insecurity in eastern europe and the caucasus. they are also seen as a step towards future eu membership. as such we voted against. ukip were however pleased to note that amendment 17 called for the eu to ensure that the upcoming vote in the netherlands on the eu-ukraine agreement is respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as a whole. i, like my colleagues in the socialist group, fully support the implementation of these association agreements. we are calling for much greater attention to be given to the social dimension of the partnership and we insist on the need for greater efforts in topics concerning the fight against corruption, respect of the rule of law and the consolidation of democracy.
mr president, i voted for the motion, as did my predecessors. i am aware that we are at war with terrorism, and that the war on terrorism is not just france, where the tragic attacks took place last november, but our entire european civilization, and therefore the european union as a whole. it is necessary to say, as the previous speakers have already said, that this is in principle the first use of this instrument under article 42 of the lisbon treaty and that we will now have to discuss how to put into practice the resolution adopted today, so that it is not just words and general declared solidarity and general declared support. we are trying to help france, as the czech republic, for example, we are involved in operations in mali. but of course this is outside the european mechanism and therefore needs to be given a concrete form.
mr president, in 1975 the people of britain voted to join the european community as a free-trade organisation. this year we will have a referendum to decide whether we stay in the european union. the motion before us today to have a mutual defence clause, or otherwise a european army, will help. we joined a free-trade union; we did not want to join an empire. we did not want to join an organisation that wanted to expand its borders. we did not want to join an organisation that slaps the face of america and nato, two entities that kept europe safe. the european union did not. this motion creates a permanent military headquarters. it creates a military alliance, it creates a european army. i voted against the option of allowing the european union to be an empire with its own army. i believe in freedom and democracy and the nation-state. i believe the people of britain will vote to leave the european union because they want that too.
in writing. – ukip voted against the resolution on the mutual defence clause because we do not support the further militarisation of the eu. we are also specifically concerned about discussion of the development of a european defence union or further activation of other defence provisions contained within the lisbon treaty. ukip is in complete support of the french people in their fight against terrorism and offers its condolences for the tragic attacks in paris last year. however, we do not support the activation of article 42(7). the uk has strong defence ties with france, through nato and bilateral agreements between the two countries, such as the lancaster house treaties (2010). ukip supported amendment 1 to the resolution on the mutual defence clause because it rejects the activation of article 42(7) teu. this should, however, not be interpreted as offering support for any other statements contained within this amendment.
in writing. – we voted in favour of the gue/ngl resolution and against the joint motion for resolution on this file. our reasons for voting for the gue/ngl resolution were because of its strong opposition to the creation of an eu military alliance and its absolute rejection of the activation of article 42(7) teu on the mutual defence clause. rejecting both of these aspects is crucial to safeguarding irish neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report because it calls for the establishment of practical arrangements and guidelines for the mutual defence clause to remain an urgent priority. i am completely opposed to the eu wanting an army at its disposal or acquiring a permanent civil-military headquarters. i do not believe this resolution is in the best interests of the defence capabilities or security of the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the resolution on the mutual defence clause because we do not support the further militarisation of the eu. we are also specifically concerned about discussion of the development of a european defence union or further activation of other defence provisions contained within the lisbon treaty. ukip is in complete support of the french people in their fight against terrorism and offers its condolences for the tragic attacks in paris last year. however, we do not support the activation of article 42(7). the uk has strong defence ties with france, through nato and bilateral agreements between the two countries, such as the lancaster house treaties (2010). ukip supported amendment 1 to the resolution on the mutual defence clause because it rejects the activation of article 42(7) teu. this should, however, not be interpreted as offering support for any other statements contained within this amendment.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the resolution on the mutual defence clause because we do not support the further militarisation of the eu. we are also specifically concerned about discussion of the development of a european defence union or further activation of other defence provisions contained within the lisbon treaty. ukip is in complete support of the french people in their fight against terrorism and offers its condolences for the tragic attacks in paris last year. however, we do not support the activation of article 42(7). the uk has strong defence ties with france, through nato and bilateral agreements between the two countries, such as the lancaster house treaties (2010). ukip supported amendment 1 to the resolution on the mutual defence clause because it rejects the activation of article 42(7) teu. this should, however, not be interpreted as offering support for any other statements contained within this amendment.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the resolution on the mutual defence clause because we do not support the further militarisation of the eu. we are also specifically concerned about discussion of the development of a european defence union or further activation of other defence provisions contained within the lisbon treaty. ukip is in complete support of the french people in their fight against terrorism and offers its condolences for the tragic attacks in paris last year. however, we do not support the activation of article 42(7). the uk has strong defence ties with france, through nato and bilateral agreements between the two countries, such as the lancaster house treaties (2010). ukip supported amendment 1 to the resolution on the mutual defence clause because it rejects the activation of article 42(7) teu. this should, however, not be interpreted as offering support for any other statements contained within this amendment.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the resolution on the mutual defence clause because we do not support the further militarisation of the eu. we are also specifically concerned about discussion of the development of a european defence union or further activation of other defence provisions contained within the lisbon treaty. ukip is in complete support of the french people in their fight against terrorism and offers its condolences for the tragic attacks in paris last year. however, we do not support the activation of article 42(7). the uk has strong defence ties with france, through nato and bilateral agreements between the two countries, such as the lancaster house treaties (2010). ukip supported amendment 1 to the resolution on the mutual defence clause because it rejects the activation of article 42(7) teu. this should, however, not be interpreted as offering support for any other statements contained within this amendment.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly support cooperation between france, the united kingdom and other member states in joint efforts on tackling terrorism. the terrorist attacks in paris last year were a strong wake—up call for every country in europe that the fight against terrorism is far from won. however, this should not be at the expense of surrendering our individual countries’ right to take our own action in these areas to defend our borders and our citizens. so, unfortunately, i cannot support this motion for resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the resolution on the mutual defence clause because we do not support the further militarisation of the eu. we are also specifically concerned about discussion of the development of a european defence union or further activation of other defence provisions contained within the lisbon treaty. ukip is in complete support of the french people in their fight against terrorism and offers its condolences for the tragic attacks in paris last year. however, we do not support the activation of article 42(7). the uk has strong defence ties with france, through nato and bilateral agreements between the two countries, such as the lancaster house treaties (2010). ukip supported amendment 1 to the resolution on the mutual defence clause because it rejects the activation of article 42(7) teu. this should, however, not be interpreted as offering support for any other statements contained within this amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mutual defence clause, which was invoked by france following the november terrorist attacks in paris. given this is the first time the mutual defence clause is being invoked, how we deal with it will serve as precedent. we therefore need to take a long-term view and develop concrete guidelines that will allow us to respond fast and effectively in the future. let this also be the opportunity to strengthen cooperation on defence and intelligence sharing. this does not mean taking sovereignty away from national governments nor side stepping nato – a point made very clear in article 42(7). it means being smart: supporting clusters, role specialisation, joint research and procurement, increasing market integration.
in writing. ‒ i and my fellow labour meps voted in favour of this report. this was the first time the mutual defence clause was invoked. the current case will serve as a precedent for the future use of the mutual defence clause. however, labour meps however did vote against measures in the resolution which called for the creation of an eu defence headquarters. labour meps do not believe in the need for the creation of another international defence mechanism, in essence duplicating nato. we also do not support eu institutions having a greater role in security and defence matters. the s&d group believes that the council and the member states should draft and adopt practical arrangements and guidelines for ensuring an effective response in the event that a member state invokes the mutual defence clause, as well as an analysis of the role of the eu institutions should that clause be invoked.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the resolution on the mutual defence clause because we do not support the further militarisation of the eu. we are also specifically concerned about discussion of the development of a european defence union or further activation of other defence provisions contained within the lisbon treaty. ukip is in complete support of the french people in their fight against terrorism and offers its condolences for the tragic attacks in paris last year. however, we do not support the activation of article 42(7). the uk has strong defence ties with france, through nato and bilateral agreements between the two countries, such as the lancaster house treaties (2010). ukip supported amendment 1 to the resolution on the mutual defence clause because it rejects the activation of article 42(7) teu. this should, however, not be interpreted as offering support for any other statements contained within this amendment.
in writing. – i and my fellow ukip mep’s voted against the resolution on the mutual defence clause because we do not support the further militarisation of the eu. we are also specifically concerned about discussion of the development of a european defence union or further activation of other defence provisions contained within the lisbon treaty. ukip is in complete support of the french people in their fight against terrorism and offers its condolences for the tragic attacks in paris last year. however, we do not support the activation of article 42(7). the uk has strong defence ties with france, through nato and bilateral agreements between the two countries, such as the lancaster house treaties (2010). my colleagues and i supported amendment 1 to the resolution on the mutual defence clause because it rejects the activation of article 42(7) teu. this should, however, not be interpreted as offering support for any other statements contained within this amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. following the terrorist attacks of 13 november 2015 in paris, the ‘mutual assistance clause’ of the treaty of lisbon was invoked for the first time by an eu member state. we welcome the unanimous and full support extended to france by all member states and their readiness to provide all necessary aid and assistance. the eu has never before faced such a convergence of security crises on its doorstep. although defence policy remains a matter of national sovereignty, we can make european defence more effective and efficient through european solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution but voted against paragraph 11 because i do not believe that the eu needs ‘permanent civil—military headquarters’.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the resolution on the mutual defence clause because we do not support the further militarisation of the eu. we are also specifically concerned about discussion of the development of a european defence union or further activation of other defence provisions contained within the lisbon treaty. ukip is in complete support of the french people in their fight against terrorism and offers its condolences for the tragic attacks in paris last year. however, we do not support the activation of article 42(7). the uk has strong defence ties with france, through nato and bilateral agreements between the two countries, such as the lancaster house treaties (2010). ukip supported amendment 1 to the resolution on the mutual defence clause because it rejects the activation of article 42(7) teu. this should, however, not be interpreted as offering support for any other statements contained within this amendment.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the resolution on the mutual defence clause because we do not support the further militarisation of the eu. we are also specifically concerned about discussion of the development of a european defence union or further activation of other defence provisions contained within the lisbon treaty. ukip is in complete support of the french people in their fight against terrorism and offers its condolences for the tragic attacks in paris last year. however, we do not support the activation of article 42(7). the uk has strong defence ties with france, through nato and bilateral agreements between the two countries, such as the lancaster house treaties (2010). ukip supported amendment 1 to the resolution on the mutual defence clause because it rejects the activation of article 42(7) teu. this should, however, not be interpreted as offering support for any other statements contained within this amendment.
in writing. ‒ this is the first time that the mutual defence clause has been invoked, which means that the case will serve as a precedent for the future of this clause and will give an insight into where else the clause can and will be applied in the future. as with a number of things in the treaties, the architecture for security and defence has not yet been fully implemented and provides only for ‘enhanced cooperation’ within the scope of the csdp. i am joining many of my colleagues in the chamber today in calling on yhe council and the member states to draft and adopt practical arrangements and guidelines for ensuring an effective response in the event that a member state invokes the mutual defence clause again in the future, as well as an analysis of the role of the eu’s institutions.
in writing. – ukip fully respects and is supportive of the work of the united nations. however, we object to the eu’s attempt to develop foreign relations and to interfere in the work of international institutions. as such we voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not believe that the eu, rather than individual member states, should set out ‘priorities’ for the unhrc. i do not agree with the report when it suggests that ‘climate change’ is a major cause of the current refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully respects and is supportive of the work of the united nations. however, we object to the eu’s attempt to develop foreign relations and to interfere in the work of international institutions. as such we voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully respects and is supportive of the work of the united nations. however, we object to the eu’s attempt to develop foreign relations and to interfere in the work of international institutions. as such we voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully respects and is supportive of the work of the united nations. however, we object to the eu’s attempt to develop foreign relations and to interfere in the work of international institutions. as such we voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully respects and is supportive of the work of the united nations. however, we object to the eu’s attempt to develop foreign relations and to interfere in the work of international institutions. as such we voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully respects and is supportive of the work of the united nations. however, we object to the eu’s attempt to develop foreign relations and to interfere in the work of international institutions. as such we voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully respects and is supportive of the work of the united nations. however, we object to the eu’s attempt to develop foreign relations and to interfere in the work of international institutions. as such we voted against this resolution.
in writing. – ukip fully respects and is supportive of the work of the united nations. however, we object to the eu’s attempt to develop foreign relations and to interfere in the work of international institutions. as such we voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that this resolution ‘expresses deep concern about the targeted attacks on human rights defenders, journalists and their family members; strongly condemns political violence, summary executions and other human rights violations; urges the burundian authorities to end these violations and abuses as a matter of critical and urgent priority and to conduct impartial and independent investigations with a view to bringing those responsible to justice and providing victims with redress’.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully respects and is supportive of the work of the united nations. however, we object to the eu's attempt to develop foreign relations and to interfere in the work of international institutions. as such we voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that we are discussing human rights issues in the world in a comprehensive way today. regrettably, the regularly updated items confirm that the human rights situation in the world has not improved recently. i regard the report as positive, but i have had to abstain because of some of the vague and controversial wording.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully respects and is supportive of the work of the united nations. however, we object to the eu's attempt to develop foreign relations and to interfere in the work of international institutions. as such we voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution will highlight the state of play of the universal periodic review for 2016 of georgia, lebanon, mauritania, burma, nepal, oman and rwanda, and what’s particularly important is the situation of human rights in critical areas like syria, the yemen, saudi arabia and burundi. i join the call on member states of the eu to actively oppose any attempt to undermine the concept of universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights, and i underline the need to keep special procedures and preserve the independence of and adequate funding for the office of the high commissioner for human rights, as well as sufficient funding for the regional offices of the ohchr.
in writing. – ukip abstained on the report on the work of the petitions committee. ukip cannot endorse the work of the committee because of the more overtly partisan political stance it has taken when it should be dealing with petitions on an impartial basis and judging the merits of each petition rather than judging them from an unashamedly political perspective. citizens of member states can have little faith that their petition will be dealt with objectively if it in any way runs counter to the norm, especially if it runs counter in any way to the political enthusiasms of the committee. in addition, the committee clearly wishes to expand, without adequate or proper justification its role and staffing levels, both of which will be injurious to the taxpayer. whilst we are conscious of the committee doing some good work on instances of maladministration (which should be its focus), we deprecate the attitude of the committee towards anyone who raises their voice about migration (which concerns many tens of millions of ordinary citizens of member states), whilst showing support for politically-correct petitioners such as those who complain about fracking. for those reasons we have abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report highlighted the ‘opaque’ negotiations carried out by the committee and calls for transparency. it also highlighted the concerns that european citizens have regarding ttip. however, i abstained on this report because it calls for increased expenditure and staffing using british taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the report on the work of the petitions committee. ukip cannot endorse the work of the committee because of the more overtly partisan political stance it has taken when it should be dealing with petitions on an impartial basis and judging the merits of each petition rather than judging them from an unashamedly political perspective. citizens of member states can have little faith that their petition will be dealt with objectively if it in any way runs counter to the norm, especially if it runs counter in any way to the political enthusiasms of the committee. in addition, the committee clearly wishes to expand, without adequate or proper justification its role and staffing levels, both of which will be injurious to the taxpayer. whilst we are conscious of the committee doing some good work on instances of maladministration (which should be its focus), we deprecate the attitude of the committee towards anyone who raises their voice about migration (which concerns many tens of millions of ordinary citizens of member states), whilst showing support for politically-correct petitioners such as those who complain about fracking. for those reasons we have abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the report on the work of the petitions committee. ukip cannot endorse the work of the committee because of the more overtly partisan political stance it has taken when it should be dealing with petitions on an impartial basis and judging the merits of each petition rather than judging them from an unashamedly political perspective. citizens of member states can have little faith that their petition will be dealt with objectively if it in any way runs counter to the norm, especially if it runs counter in any way to the political enthusiasms of the committee. in addition, the committee clearly wishes to expand, without adequate or proper justification its role and staffing levels, both of which will be injurious to the taxpayer. whilst we are conscious of the committee doing some good work on instances of maladministration (which should be its focus), we deprecate the attitude of the committee towards anyone who raises their voice about migration (which concerns many tens of millions of ordinary citizens of member states), whilst showing support for politically-correct petitioners such as those who complain about fracking. for those reasons we have abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the report on the work of the petitions committee. ukip cannot endorse the work of the committee because of the more overtly partisan political stance it has taken when it should be dealing with petitions on an impartial basis and judging the merits of each petition rather than judging them from an unashamedly political perspective. citizens of member states can have little faith that their petition will be dealt with objectively if it in any way runs counter to the norm, especially if it runs counter in any way to the political enthusiasms of the committee. in addition, the committee clearly wishes to expand, without adequate or proper justification its role and staffing levels, both of which will be injurious to the taxpayer. whilst we are conscious of the committee doing some good work on instances of maladministration (which should be its focus), we deprecate the attitude of the committee towards anyone who raises their voice about migration (which concerns many tens of millions of ordinary citizens of member states), whilst showing support for politically-correct petitioners such as those who complain about fracking. for those reasons we have abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the report on the work of the petitions committee. ukip cannot endorse the work of the committee because of the more overtly partisan political stance it has taken when it should be dealing with petitions on an impartial basis and judging the merits of each petition rather than judging them from an unashamedly political perspective. citizens of member states can have little faith that their petition will be dealt with objectively if it in any way runs counter to the norm, especially if it runs counter in any way to the political enthusiasms of the committee. in addition, the committee clearly wishes to expand, without adequate or proper justification its role and staffing levels, both of which will be injurious to the taxpayer. whilst we are conscious of the committee doing some good work on instances of maladministration (which should be its focus), we deprecate the attitude of the committee towards anyone who raises their voice about migration (which concerns many tens of millions of ordinary citizens of member states), whilst showing support for politically-correct petitioners such as those who complain about fracking. for those reasons we have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this report, which goes far beyond a summary of the petitions committee’s annual activities and instead seeks to direct to member states what their actions should be in areas that clearly remain the competences of national governments.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the report on the work of the petitions committee. ukip cannot endorse the work of the committee because of the more overtly partisan political stance it has taken when it should be dealing with petitions on an impartial basis and judging the merits of each petition rather than judging them from an unashamedly political perspective. citizens of member states can have little faith that their petition will be dealt with objectively if it in any way runs counter to the norm, especially if it runs counter in any way to the political enthusiasms of the committee. in addition, the committee clearly wishes to expand, without adequate or proper justification its role and staffing levels, both of which will be injurious to the taxpayer. whilst we are conscious of the committee doing some good work on instances of maladministration (which should be its focus), we deprecate the attitude of the committee towards anyone who raises their voice about migration (which concerns many tens of millions of ordinary citizens of member states), whilst showing support for politically-correct petitioners such as those who complain about fracking. for those reasons we have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of the committee as a bridge between the european parliament and citizens.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the s&d group, i voted in favour of this report. the report is an overview of the petitions committee’s 2014 activities. the report focuses on the petitions received by the committee and the actions taken and it stresses the importance of the committee as a bridge between the european parliament and citizens.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the report on the work of the petitions committee. ukip cannot endorse the work of the committee because of the more overtly partisan political stance it has taken when it should be dealing with petitions on an impartial basis and judging the merits of each petition rather than judging them from an unashamedly political perspective. citizens of member states can have little faith that their petition will be dealt with objectively if it in any way runs counter to the norm, especially if it runs counter in any way to the political enthusiasms of the committee. in addition, the committee clearly wishes to expand, without adequate or proper justification its role and staffing levels, both of which will be injurious to the taxpayer. whilst we are conscious of the committee doing some good work on instances of maladministration (which should be its focus), we deprecate the attitude of the committee towards anyone who raises their voice about migration (which concerns many tens of millions of ordinary citizens of member states), whilst showing support for politically-correct petitioners such as those who complain about fracking. for those reasons we have abstained.
in writing. – my colleagues and i abstained on the report on the work of the petitions committee. ukip cannot endorse the work of the committee because of the more overtly partisan political stance it has taken when it should be dealing with petitions on an impartial basis and judging the merits of each petition rather than judging them from an unashamedly political perspective. citizens of member states can have little faith that their petition will be dealt with objectively if it in any way runs counter to the norm, especially if it runs counter in any way to the political enthusiasms of the committee. in addition, the committee clearly wishes to expand, without adequate or proper justification its role and staffing levels, both of which will be injurious to the taxpayer. whilst we are conscious of the committee doing some good work on instances of maladministration (which should be its focus), we deprecate the attitude of the committee towards anyone who raises their voice about migration (which concerns many tens of millions of ordinary citizens of member states), whilst showing support for politically-correct petitioners such as those who complain about fracking. for those reasons my colleagues and i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it is simply an overview of the petitions committee’s 2014 activities stressing the importance of the committee as a bridge between the european parliament and citizens.
in writing. – the activities of the committee on petitions 2014 shows the myriad concerns presented to the committee by citizens. one concern was consistently voiced by citizens: the ttip negotiations and the nature of any final agreement. the european labour party will judge the final text according to our demands to reject the isds, to include a full carve—out of public services and to guarantee the protection of workers’ rights. on the isds, we believe that the european commission should hear the case made by the supporters of the european citizens’ initiative that was dismissed. furthermore, we have called for increased transparency standards, similar to those found at the wto trade agreement negotiations, with regard to the negotiating texts and the offers made by each party. the european ombudsman has made an important proposal in this respect, which must be fully implemented by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon confirmed the right to petition the european parliament as one of the cornerstones of european union citizenship and as a fundamental right under article 227 of the treaty, which provides that citizens or residents of the european union, whether natural or legal persons, individually or in association with other citizens or persons, have the right to address a petition to the european parliament on a matter which comes within the european union’s fields of activity and which affects them directly. this tool allows citizens to bring before parliament their concerns about the impact of various eu policies and legislation on their everyday lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which focuses on the petitions received by the committee and the actions taken. it also stresses the importance of the committee as a bridge between the european parliament and citizens.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the report on the work of the petitions committee. ukip cannot endorse the work of the committee because of the more overtly partisan political stance it has taken when it should be dealing with petitions on an impartial basis and judging the merits of each petition rather than judging them from an unashamedly political perspective. citizens of member states can have little faith that their petition will be dealt with objectively if it in any way runs counter to the norm, especially if it runs counter in any way to the political enthusiasms of the committee. in addition, the committee clearly wishes to expand, without adequate or proper justification its role and staffing levels, both of which will be injurious to the taxpayer. whilst we are conscious of the committee doing some good work on instances of maladministration (which should be its focus), we deprecate the attitude of the committee towards anyone who raises their voice about migration (which concerns many tens of millions of ordinary citizens of member states), whilst showing support for politically-correct petitioners such as those who complain about fracking. for those reasons we have abstained.
in writing. i did not support the wording of the part of the resolution which arbitrarily judges that the citizens of the member states reject the ttip free trade agreement between the eu and the usa under discussion. i think it is a good principle because it can create jobs and economic growth. of course, the eu cannot compromise on some of its values, and, according to the information available, it is not even trying to do so. i do not find any negative opinion on ttip among my voters in the czech republic, or rather a large number of czech citizens support the principle of the treaty.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the report on the work of the petitions committee. ukip cannot endorse the work of the committee because of the more overtly partisan political stance it has taken when it should be dealing with petitions on an impartial basis and judging the merits of each petition rather than judging them from an unashamedly political perspective. citizens of member states can have little faith that their petition will be dealt with objectively if it in any way runs counter to the norm, especially if it runs counter in any way to the political enthusiasms of the committee. in addition, the committee clearly wishes to expand, without adequate or proper justification its role and staffing levels, both of which will be injurious to the taxpayer. whilst we are conscious of the committee doing some good work on instances of maladministration (which should be its focus), we deprecate the attitude of the committee towards anyone who raises their voice about migration (which concerns many tens of millions of ordinary citizens of member states), whilst showing support for politically-correct petitioners such as those who complain about fracking. for those reasons we have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report of the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014 as it focused on the petitions received by the committee and the actions taken, and i am satisfied that the committee is functioning well and providing a much needed service to the european parliament, providing a bridge between the european parliament and the citizens of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which provided an overview of the petitions committee’s 2014 activities. labour meps believe that the committee is an essential tool at the hands of eu citizens, as it acts as a bridge between them and parliament.
author.– mr president, the most effective response to piracy has proved to be the use of on-board security teams. these teams tend to live on what we might call mother ships, which are in effect floating armouries from which teams of guards are sent to join ships which require protection. the motor vessel seaman guard ohio was just such a floating armoury and on 11 october 2013 it was apparently in indian territorial waters when it was intercepted by the indian coastguard and escorted to the port of tuticorin. subsequently all 35 members of the crew, including 14 estonians and six britons, were charged, and they are the subject of this resolution. after some legal arguments and to our great consternation they were eventually brought to trial and given the maximum sentence of five years’ imprisonment. throughout this period of over two years they have been held in custody in india. i have to say we respect india’s sovereignty over its territory and waters and the fact that it has a fine legal tradition. we know also that india has suffered from atrocious terrorist attacks, some mounted from the sea. we therefore understand very well indian sensitivities. however, in this case the personnel concerned were no threat to india and carried out no acts of violence against indian interests. on the contrary, they were engaged in counter-terrorism. these men, british and estonian and others, have had to endure a difficult imprisonment and now have an uncertain future. their families are in distress. we ask the indian authorities with all respect to allow these men to return home, pending completion of the judicial processes and for a rapid and benign conclusion to this matter. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– mr van orden, do you accept that it is quite absurd for the indian authorities, in sentencing these people, to treat everyone the same? on a ship the captain directs the course of action. he told the crew to get diesel from india, and the crew had to obey. if the crew had disobeyed they would have been shot for mutiny. if they obey, they are imprisoned by the indian authorities, who do not seem to understand the distinction between a group of people obeying orders and not. would mr van orden agree with this?
author, blue-card answer.– you make a very fine point: i think we have seen some rather indiscriminate arrests going on, and it appears that the men concerned were not actually doing anything themselves that was offensive. they were caught up in circumstances outside of their control, as you rightly point out. for all these reasons, we ask for a rapid conclusion to this matter.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, may i gently point out that i do not think we are in a quorum while the debate is taking place. however, i have already said in this discussion, in answer to mr van orden’s speech, that what has happened in india is a bit of a travesty of justice. what is even more important is to help the indians to modernise their legal system. for two years the people who have been arrested have been on bail, without any financial assistance, some of them very ill and in poor shape. it has taken the indian authorities two years to bring this matter to trial. the indian legal system is groaning under the weight of numbers of cases, some of which have been ongoing for 20 years. you cannot have a democratic country with a justice system that does not function properly. if there is anything we can do to help india it is to modernise india’s legal structures.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i have the greatest possible respect for the indian people and the indian government. i fully respect the sovereignty of india, and i recognise the difficult and unusual situation which gave rise to the current cases. we must not undermine the good relations between the uk and india, and in that spirit of cooperation i feel that it is appropriate for us to make certain requests. i recognise the indian government has legitimate concerns over illegally held weapons and i understand their reasonably held worries since the events in mumbai in 2008, but as far as i can see the british citizens involved – including nick dunn from my constituency in ashington – also had a reasonable belief: they believed that they were acting in accordance with the law. they believed that they were fighting against piracy, working for an american company. they did not believe they were doing anything contrary to the law or to the best interests of india, nor did they even necessarily know that the weapons were illegally held. in such a case, i really wonder whether their continued imprisonment really serves any public interest. i therefore call upon the indian government to review this case and to free those british, italian and estonian citizens who have been caught up in a situation not of their making.
blue-card question.– will you accept that, in modern times, to keep people incarcerated for two years without bring them to trial is not acceptable? that is all i am saying: that it took two years for the indian authorities to bring these people to trial and to sentence them, and i made the point that some of them should not have been sentenced because they were carrying out orders and if they had not carried out those orders they would have been shot for mutiny. would it not be correct to say that, under habeas corpus and other matters, they should have been brought to trial sooner?
author.– mr president, i speak as the chair of the delegation for the korean peninsula, and it is with a very heavy heart that i get up this afternoon to talk about what is happening in north korea. i was so upset and sad to hear that a bomb had been exploded by the north korean regime at a time when the european parliament and my delegation had been working extremely hard over the last year to build a relationship between the north and the south, to the point that we had been invited by both sides to write a peace treaty between the north and the south, something that – as you may know – does not currently exist. what does exist is an armistice signed some 63 years ago, and the entire construct of the republic of korea and the dprk is built on an armistice. in my understanding an armistice is a break in a war, but not a peace treaty. my intention has been to write this peace treaty with the help of the united states, china, russia and all the other parties involved. that is what we have been doing. i want to keep our relationship with north korea open even though they are playing some a dangerous game, which is not of any value as i see it, either to themselves, or to global peace. they cannot create economic structures by building nuclear weapons when their people are hungry and their economy is one of the least developed. we need to keep the door open, and i intend to do that. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
author, blue-card answer.– i am very grateful to you for asking that question. if you look at all the interlocutors on this particular issue, we, the eu, are the only people who do not have an axe to grind. this is an english expression, which i am sure you will understand. we do not have a particular set of goals. we want peace. we want reconciliation. once we get that understood by the chinas, the japans and the north and south koreas and the united states, then we will make progress. so we have a unique position and a role to play here.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, like most people’s democratic republics in history, north korea is not a republic, it is not democratic and it does not act for its people. communism in north korea, like every other regime ever to try it, is rotten and corrupt to the core. they execute someone every four hours, they grow more drugs than they grow food, and there is serious malnutrition, rationing and utter ruthlessness towards dissidents. i am sorrowfully reminded that, only a couple of months ago in the british parliament, labour’s shadow chancellor approvingly pulled out and quoted the little red book of china’s chairman mao. mao’s version of communism butchered tens of millions of his own people. we should hang our heads in shame that such extremism was ever seen in the british parliament. we must fight and reject the politics of north korea. we must fight the ideology that gives birth to it every bit as much as we fight that which spawns organisations like isis.
mr president, yes, indeed, but this rule 175 is not actually a referral of the matter back to a parliamentary committee. it is simply asking the committee to act as a filter when a very large number of amendments – especially amendments which have very little chance of being adopted in plenary – have been tabled. the committee looks at them and weeds out all those that have less than one-tenth of the committee supporting them, because they have no chance of being adopted. this then should make our votes in this house much shorter because all those filibustering amendments will have been weeded out by the committee. so if the committee can meet in time, in the course of the week, it should actually facilitate things if we made proper use of this rule.
mr president, mr draghi says his policy is working, but under-performance in the euro area is only out of the spotlight because of catastrophe in the schengen area. the truth is that both these pillars of european integration face collapse. the schengen breakdown currently produces more shocking pictures on the tv news, but the euro malfunction is also having devastating consequences. youth unemployment rates of 40% or more in the southern periphery and long-term stagnation are destroying human potential. the ecb report speaks of structural reforms and, yes, these are sorely needed to improve southern productivity; but even if successfully implemented, they will only go a small way to correct imbalances created by fundamental differences in economic strength. each country needs its own currency so that it has levers of control over interest rates and influence on exchange rates too, just as each country needs to control its own borders.
blue-card question.– mr president, assessing the success or failure of the euro is simple enough because there is a control group: we can look independently at how eurozone and non-eurozone economies have developed, and the non-eurozone ones have developed faster than the eurozone ones. so do you agree with me that the euro is a failed political project, not a successful economic one? do you agree with me that we should respect the democratic sovereign right of any country which does not want to join the eurozone, and actually we should look at countries leaving rather than joining? (applause)
mr president, there are two ways that you can do things in life. one way is the independent, impartial way. it is the evidence-based way, taking decisions on the grounds of what is best for citizens. the other is to pre-decide on your conclusions and then do whatever it takes to defend them. well in this report we are urged to do everything possible to defend the euro, so i think we know which of those two it is going to be, and the evidence really does not support that. take one example of so, so many. i could point out that the commission expects a 1.7% growth rate for the eurozone in 2016, whereas the world bank predicts that the uk economy will grow by 2.6%. the report even goes so far as to suggest that officials should be chosen on the basis of gender, which seems to me to be simple, patronising tokenism. so what do i do? do i vote against this report because it stands for everything that is wrong with the eu, or do i abstain because, thankfully, britain is not in the euro and so it is not for british meps to tell other countries what they should and should not do?
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other shadows. these tisa negotiations are controversial. services are crucial to our economies and their quality has a direct impact on jobs, fairness at work and social cohesion. in this house we have the power to veto any trade deal, and if we use this power wisely in the negotiations we can deliver a more democratic eu trade policy that works for people and not just for profit. to do that, we have to set out clear mandates for the negotiators on what we are willing to accept and what we will not. we found such an agreement in the committee on international trade in the middle of january. we got support from six of eight political groups, and i am now calling on colleagues from all sides of this parliament to confirm this strong mandate in plenary and, in so doing, to make it impossible for the commission and the member states to disregard our views and the public’s concerns. this is not a vote on whether we are for or against a tisa deal; it is about setting out red lines. we should be clear: today’s global rules reflect the analogue era, whilst we are in a digital world, and they need to be updated. we need new safeguards and protections. we want a full, unambiguous exclusion for all public services. we need rules to guarantee public authorities’ right to regulate and, while we are good at exporting services in europe, which is creating and maintaining millions of jobs in the eu, we should do what we can to create new opportunities for our economy. at the same time, we should ensure service sector workers know that we are on their side and that we will not accept an agreement which intensifies social dumping. we need to re-regulate globalisation, and tisa could help us achieve that. but the commission needs to get it right. eu negotiators must change the eu’s priorities in the tisa negotiations. they need to see that we are serious, and that is why we need strong support for this resolution when it is voted upon in plenary. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– in these negotiations – in the gats agreement at international level which we are looking to revise – there is no social chapter and there is no inclusion of the ratification of ilo standards. we have tussled with this inside the committee on international trade (inta), as well you know. we have worked out how to tackle ensuring that those basic fundamental labour rights are reflected, and the report and the compromise that we reached in the inta committee actually sets out a clear demand for all tisa parties to ratify and to apply ilo conventions, not in the tisa agreement but in practice – and, in reality, practice is the thing that we need, not words on paper, and i think this report is a strong step forward.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i welcome the commissioner. it is great that she is here in what is going to be a vital debate that is actually one that is going to affect tens of millions of jobs in the european union. the trade in services agreement (tisa) has the potential to add gbp 20 billion to the annual gdp of the eu, and with services accounting for 70% of our eu economy. the uk is one of the biggest exporters of services in the world, and so my member state has a keen interest in the advancement of talks at a plurilateral level. and we have managed to attract very broad support in the committee for this report, which shows that many of my fellow colleagues also understand the significance of this trade agreement. on the one hand, we must ensure that tisa is an ambitious agreement that tackles the modern-day issues of the 21st century, such as trade in digital services and recognition of and help for the inclusion of small- and medium-sized enterprises in global supply chains. but, on the other hand, we must take on board public concerns about trade deals and their perceived threat, which is why the committee has included the language on the protection of public services such as the nhs and continuing to allow member state governments to manage the services as they see fit. i am confident that this language is secure and offers the guarantees that people need. to conclude, i believe that this report offers a solid grounding of support from the european parliament to the commission for the advancement of the trade in services agreement that i hope will open up market opportunities for european businesses within a rules-based system that we can then take on a multilateral level.
mr president, i have to go.
blue-card question.– i would like to thank mrs schaake very much for taking this blue card and for showing a courtesy of which ms mcclarkin is clearly incapable. my question is this: do you think that labour rights should be installed, ipso facto, into all the eu’s trade agreements, or do you think that labour rights are better determined and decided at the national level?
mr president, given that, as others have said, 70% of our workforce is employed in the services sector, tisa is a major opportunity for europe. tisa can level the global playing field by giving eu companies the same level of market access that third countries currently enjoy in our market. tisa can be good for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, those which find non-tariff barriers more difficult to overcome than bigger enterprises do. tisa – as we have just heard – can be good for consumers if it tackles the problems they often face with service providers based in third countries. tisa can be good for workers if domestic labour rights are protected and mode four is outlawed from undermining their conditions. i have used a conditional ‘can be’ intentionally. whether tisa turns out to be positive depends on protecting our public services, on protecting governments’ right to regulate and on ensuring a high quality of level for data protection. tisa will only command the support of my group if it represents, at the end of the day, our values and aspirations. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr martin, i respect the position that you have expressed. i would just like to go specifically into ratchet clauses. i know that part b, subsection 4, of the recommendations to the commission specifically opposes such clauses. they would be very damaging if they were included in the agreement. can you confirm whether you would vote against any such agreement if it still contained a ratchet clause by the time tisa came to a full vote?
blue-card answer.– our position on this issue, and in terms of all trade agreements, is that we do not support ratchet clauses. we support the right of governments to determine domestic policy. if it decides that a public service should be a public service, no matter what has happened before, it should have the right to return a public service to the public.
mr president, in my constituency, trade and services is incredibly important to business. the uk is the largest exporter of services to the world, even bigger than the usa. that is not just a fact, that is a government statistic – for those who appreciate the irony of that. so i want to make sure that british interests and north-east interests are protected. why? because that sector employs over 45 000 people in my constituency and over 12 000 in newcastle alone. but, as ever, this report has its wrinkles. it is advisory only. if we adopt it in full it will not remove a single stroke of the pen from tisa itself. it also recognises that tisa will involve movement of natural persons between countries that are parties to the agreement. does that mean even more massive migration to the uk, and if so, how much? it correctly identifies the threat of a ratchet clause which would put the rights of investors over a democratically-elected government. long story short: we need to protect the uk’s status as a world leader and i am growing increasingly concerned that tisa will not do that.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, we have known for 15 years that a decision on market economy status for china had to be made this year, yet the commission appears to have made no decision and to have no clear strategy. now that we have woken the commission from its stupor, i hope that today will mark the start of a serious discussion with parliament, with the member states and with european industry and trade unions – as well as with the chinese government – on where we go from here. we want good relations with china, and we understand that china feels that in december, market economic status should automatically be granted to it. but china should also understand that in 2001 we had a real expectation that by 2016 china itself would be a market economy. it is clear that it is not, and the commissioner herself has made it clear that china is not a market economy. therefore, there can be no automatic granting of market economic status to china. we cannot allow china to solve its overcapacity by dumping on the european market. steel might be capturing the headlines at the moment, but, as the commission again points out, we have 52 ongoing investigations on dumping, so the impact is much wider than just the steel industry. it is not – and we need to keep saying this as the european union – protectionist to defend yourself against unfair competition. the eu desperately needs a modern, effective regime of trade defence instruments. the existence of such a scheme is a sine qua non for my group supporting market economic status for china.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, market economy status for china is probably one of the toughest issues that the european union will deal with this year, and there are a number of aspects that we must bear in mind during this debate. firstly, following the opinion of parliament’s legal service, the commission has to be conscious of its commitments under wto law on changing its anti-dumping regulations to take account of the expiry of article 15a under china’s accession protocol. on the other hand, i am more than aware of the importance of this issue, given that my own member state’s steel industry is currently on its knees and may never recover. this is largely due to chinese steel being sold on the world market. it is therefore vital, whatever action is taken about the protocol, that eu anti-dumping law retains the ability to take swift and effective action to tackle anti-competitive market practices. therefore i call on the commission to include, as part of its strategy over the coming months, a detailed impact assessment on the changing of the methodology for anti-dumping duties, but also to look at the full remit of the trade defence instruments we have at our disposal.
mr president, i represent the west midlands, which is the only uk region with a trade surplus with china, worth gbp 3 billion last year. free trade is vital for us and is vital for europe as a whole. now, do trade subsidies exist in china? yes. does the government play too big a role in the economy? yes. but how do we change this? by tying china into the global trading system and by treating them like everyone else. if we go all protectionist and reject this status, they will not reform and they will retaliate. this will hurt our export industries and cost us jobs. china opted to join the wto; they opted to play by our rules. this was a huge success for the west, and we need to build on it, but we also need to meet our own obligations. market economy status does not stop us imposing anti-dumping measures; we just have to use the wto parameters. we should approve it, and then we should move forward with the investment agreement. after that, in the long run, we should look at a free trade agreement with china. this is how we deal with china: bind her into the global trading system. but in order to do that, we also need to trust in free trade and in the wto ourselves.
mr president, china aspires to market economy status, but it is worth pointing out that it is already the largest exporter of goods to the eu – and by the way, ms mcclarkin, you would learn something if you waited around. china’s exports of goods to the eu are substantially more than what the uk does every year, and that is without being a member state. china has been dumping steel on the uk market. in consequence, thousands of steel jobs have vanished in some of the uk’s most economically—challenged areas. the entire industry is at risk. if only the uk itself had the ability to impose anti-dumping tariffs on china – but it does not as we have given that power away – then things would be different. they would even be different in the west midlands. according to the european policy institute, market economy status for china would put 3.5 million jobs at risk. it is clear that china cannot, and must not, be treated as a market economy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – lord dartmouth, do you really believe – having heard the contributions of our conservative members tonight, and the prime minister’s greeting of the premier of china – that if britain was not in the european union, we would be imposing anti-dumping duties on china at the present time?
blue-card answer.– if mr martin, for whom i have the highest possible regard, is trying to say – or indeed is saying – that the prime minister is entirely pusillanimous, entirely feeble, does not stand up for british interests with the eu and would not stand up for british interests with china, then i have to say i entirely agree with him.
mr president, china should not be awarded market economy status at this time. in china, resources are not allocated by the market; prices are not freely determined by the market; major industry sectors are subject to centrally-imposed five-year plans. market economy status would make it more difficult to act against the steel dumping which has done so much damage in britain and across europe. but i see parallels here with the eu’s intrusive and distorting energy policy. here in the eu, resources are not allocated by the market. prices are distorted by subsidies and by the eu’s emissions trading scheme. the whole industry is dominated by central planning from brussels. so perhaps we should not be debating china. perhaps we should be debating whether the eu itself deserves market economy status.
mr president, we have known that this decision on market economy status was coming for 15 years, since china joined the wto, but our national governments have wilfully ignored the implications for our trade defence instruments. now i have heard no one here suggesting that china is a market economy. so what is this really about? well, my constituents across teesside – steel workers who have lost their jobs in recent months – know only too keenly the damage that dumping is doing. our trade defence instruments are insufficient to deal with chinese overcapacity, never mind the slowdown which is coming. we have been waiting for years for national governments to agree the modernisation necessary for these vital tools. britain is leading a blocking minority in the council, and as uk ministers cry their crocodile tears for our steel industry at home, abroad they give valuable contracts to chinese investors and block the tools needed to allow a fair global market. strengthening our trade defence instruments must be the priority now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– as a fellow member for north-east england, would you join me in praising the fact that, in the north-east, a higher percentage of our exporters export to china than in any other region in the country? however – although you do not necessarily accept my view that the eu is part of the problem, not the solution – would you also share my concern that, across the rest of the uk, metalliferous ores and scrap metal are in the top five british exports to china, especially given the recent decimation of the north-east’s steel industry?
blue-card answer.– i think that the eu is part of the solution in respect to the situation in the steel industry. the proposals around the circular economy package, looking at recycling targets for metals, are actually part of the potential revival for regions like teesside and other steel and metal regions. so, on the contrary, i think that there is a lot that the eu can do, but ultimately we need fair trade, and that means proper trade defence.
madam president, two weeks ago it was announced that over 1 000 jobs at tata steel could be lost, the majority of them in port talbot and trostre in my constituency in wales. losing these jobs would be a massive blow to the local and the national economy. my party has been putting forward constructive and positive proposals to save the steel industry in wales, but there has to be a long-term future. that means a speedy and thorough investigation of chinese dumping and urgent action on tariffs on chinese steel. thousands of tons of steel are imported into the eu every week, undercutting welsh produce and threatening thousands of jobs. i know that other countries suffer in the same way. market economy status would make it nigh on impossible to impose tariffs on chinese steel, despite our problems. that is why i am strongly opposed to it.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, in autumn last year, commissioner ,you unveiled the eu’s new trade policy: trade for all. we were told that sustainable development and human rights would be strengthened in the eu trade deals. and yet, here we are tonight debating a trade deal with west africa in which sustainable development has undoubtedly been sidelined. when it comes to human rights, labour and the environment, implementation is absolutely key. the systematic involvement of civil society is crucial. in this agreement, we wholly lack the tools needed to make any of these rights a reality in practice rather than just rights on paper. this must be bolstered. this is what the eu has delivered in all of its trade deals over the last ten years. our african partners want a balanced relationship with the eu, based on mutual respect. that entails holding them to the same standards and monitoring to which we hold the rest of the world. we need some improvements, please.
madam president, as bernd lange rightly says, i had the privilege of being the rapporteur for the cariforum economic partnership agreement, and so i hope i am forgiven for seeing that as a bit of a benchmark for other epas. if that is the benchmark, then – as others have said and as the commissioner herself has said – ecowas fails this comparison. instead of a detailed chapter on social and environmental standards such as we have in cariforum, the west africa agreement makes heavy reference back to cotonou. but as we know, the upcoming expiry of cotonou leaves us wondering exactly how this epa will be enforceable in the future. i would like to hear more about how the commissioner sees the expiry of cotonou in relation to the west african epa. i slightly disagree with ska keller on monitoring. i accept her point that monitoring has not been successful so far, but i do welcome the commissioner’s commitment to ensuring that the monitoring groups are properly financed, that they are able to operate and that you will act on any reports that come from them. and that is true. it has not been the history so far, but if we do have active monitoring groups, this could be progress.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, this mid-term review could not be clearer: unless member states step up their efforts to better deliver and enforce legislation in the eu, we will once again fail to meet our biodiversity targets for 2020 – just like we did in 2010. given this worrying trend, we cannot afford to waste time by opening up our legislation, which is recognised globally to be the gold standard in environmental protection, as it protects our biodiversity – namely, the birds and habitats directive. thanks to the natura 2000 sites across the eu, thousands of species enjoy protection. these sites generate environmental and socio-economic benefits worth around eur 300 billion annually. revising the directives now would lead to years of legal uncertainty and would further divert us from reaching our biodiversity targets. we know what we need: better enforcement and implementation of existing laws. protecting biodiversity makes economic sense too. if we miss our overall biodiversity targets, it is estimated that this will cost eur 50 billion per year in lost natural services, never mind the risks of destroying the biosphere and permanently damaging the life-sustaining forces on our continent. we all know that we are running out of time. there are things that you could do, commissioner, to help us reach the 2020 targets. will you commit here today to working with the council to ensure better delivery of the regulations which protect our biodiversity? we know that the lack of enforcement by member states is the big elephant in the room. countries are refusing to accept their responsibilities, so it is very sad that the council is not here today to take part in the debate. will you, commissioner, propose without delay an eu legal framework of environmental inspections and access to justice for those who are working to protect our treasured biodiversity? citizens look to us to give them better tools to ensure that they can hold their governments to account. i understand you share this parliament’s frustrations, but these are steps that europe can and must take to ensure we meet our biodiversity targets.
madam president, we in ukip believe in the importance of preserving nature reserves and natural habitats for wildlife in britain and europe. in fact, i belong to the wiltshire wildlife trust, which has preserved beautiful tracts of the county. consequently we are willing to support the improvement of existing legislation on this issue. however, we believe that this task should be a national responsibility, and we therefore oppose new eu legislation in this area. the best people to decide on natural habitats in britain are the british. we do not trust the unelected european commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. as for climate change, i would suggest that currently in the uk, the greatest risk to wildlife is the unprecedented demand for housing as a direct result of population growth and migration into the uk, which is seeing our beautiful green and pleasant land rapidly disappearing under tarmac and concrete.
madam president, of course i completely support the richness of biodiversity in my constituency, in the united kingdom and indeed across europe. from the wonder of the washington wetlands, home of some of the world’s rarest water birds, to the grey seal colony on the farne islands. from the beauty of the durham coast to the simple need to protect our songbirds. much of this report i agree with. i want to protect these as much as anyone else here. but then the report goes downhill. where we need common sense, it proposes bureaucracy. where we need to safeguard fish, it supports the wasteful common fisheries policy; and where we need localism, it proposes centralisation. you see, this place recognises the problem, but we have the solutions all wrong.
madam president, we all heard about the shocking situation in cologne and elsewhere, where women were assaulted and harassed by groups of migrant and refugee men. how have we let this happen? the eu expanding the meaning of the 1951 geneva convention is at the heart of it. the geneva convention is the only international definition of a refugee: someone who is genuinely in fear of persecution due to race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion. however, the eu has expanded this and created its own definition through the qualification directive. this now includes anyone fleeing situations of international or internal armed conflict and not just those in legitimate fear of persecution. so the eu has opened the door to countless millions, and in 2015 this led to over one million people arriving in europe, the majority of them men. this open-door policy to countries and cultures that treat women as second—class citizens has put us all at very great risk.
madam president, the north sea has the potential to become a central plank of the eu’s energy union: a real northern powerhouse. offshore wind and other renewables, better interconnection through a meshed electricity grid, and joint research cooperation around the north sea could help ensure low-cost, secure and clean energy, while creating and maintaining thousands of high-quality jobs – including in my constituency in the north-east of england. the dutch presidency of the council is an excellent opportunity to turn this potential into reality. last month, colleagues from five political groupings and i presented the dutch minister for the economy with an action plan for energy for the north sea. that is ahead of a high-level meeting that is happening this thursday, and i would like to call on them to take this opportunity to make the north sea a clean powerhouse for europe.
member of the commission.– madam president, a deeper and a fairer internal market and the fight against social dumping are absolute priorities for me and for the commission. personally i do not like the term social dumping – we are talking about people here, not about goods – but when it comes to undeclared work, we should not camouflage its dramatic effects by using soft words. undeclared work deprives workers of any protection. it deeply affects the quality of their employment; they can be made to work long hours in bad health and safety conditions without any recourse to justice. people receiving envelope wages, or cash in hand, are sometimes left with little or no pay at all after months of hard work. as a matter of fact, they might not have the right to redundancy payments or unemployment benefits or to any other benefits. they are not building up their pension rights. undeclared work is not only unfair to the workers involved, it is also unfair to businesses that do play by the rules. we know that small and medium—sized companies are the first to suffer from such unfair competition. undeclared work also undermines the sustainability of public finances and social security systems, as no taxes or contributions are paid on undeclared activities. although undeclared work is hidden – which makes it difficult to measure precisely – we know it is widespread in all member states and difficult to eradicate. estimates suggest that the shadow economy may reach 15% to 20% of gdp in some member states. that is why the establishment of a european platform to enhance cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work and to tackle undeclared work is such an important and big step forward. it will encourage cooperation between member states through exchanging best practices and information, developing expertise and analysis, facilitating innovative approaches to the effective tackling of undeclared work, and contributing to a horizontal understanding of matters. it foresees a multi-disciplinary approach, bringing together the expertise of different enforcement authorities such as labour inspectorates, social, tax and immigration authorities. such a multi—disciplinary approach has already been implemented with good results in some member states, and i am glad that the european platform builds upon those good examples. it is only through a holistic approach, across borders and across disciplines, that we will be able to tackle this complex phenomenon effectively. i would like to stress the importance of the inclusion of bogus self—employment in the activities of the platform. this too is an area in which the development of expertise and exchange of best practices is needed. finally, i note with satisfaction that the social partners will play an important role in the platform and that close cooperation with eurofound and the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) is foreseen. i would like to thank parliament for all its efforts in making a timely agreement on the platform possible. in particular, i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, mr pirinski, and to ms ulvskog for chairing the trilogue so competently. i would also like to thank the entire negotiation team for their efforts and constructive approach. the council will now adopt a decision on the platform on 24 february, allowing for the official signature, to which i look forward during the march plenary. in the meantime, we are already preparing for the first meeting of the platform to take place before the summer. i am committed to doing everything possible from my side to make the platform a success. the platform will regularly inform you about its activities and submit its work programmes and reports to the european parliament and the council, as well as to the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. i count on your valuable input and support.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pirinski, and all the shadows for their work on this file. there has been a great deal of cooperation and i think we have all benefited from that. undeclared work is a very serious subject which impacts on all the member states. it particularly affects tax evasion – which is a real problem – benefit fraud, illegal immigration, and of course it undercuts legitimate businesses and entrepreneurs and undermines workers as well. so i think that this platform is a really good example of just how the european union should operate. it recognises the sovereignty of member states and it adds value by sharing experience and best practice and cross-border cooperation. so this is where we can really see an enhancement through this platform – an enhancement of cooperation between the member states – while recognising their individual sovereignty. we need to recognise that the level of undeclared work varies from state to state; for example, in the uk, according to the oecd data, the level of the informal economy is about 1.7 %, whereas in some member states it is as high as 30%. my group had four priorities. first, the scope of the platform would be limited and focus on enforcement, exchange of best practice, and knowledge-sharing, rather than creating and mandating standardised approaches. second, it is important that it fully respects the principle of subsidiarity and the competences of member states. thirdly, although participation is compulsory and mandatory, which is fine, the activities are entirely on a voluntary case-by-case basis. and lastly, while social partners can play a valuable role, they should not be on an equal footing with member states. so we have a really good platform here. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 162(8)).
blue-card question.– good morning to my west midlands colleague. i note that you say it must be done with sovereign countries cooperating and with no particular enforcement, as i think one of the other colleagues has just mentioned. that was in the speech. is there any conceivable reason why any of the good things that you point out could not be done by an independent sovereign united kingdom dealing with our friends in europe without being under the auspices of the eu? this seems to me particularly normal, just a normal agreement. why can we not do this on our own?
blue-card answer.– in response to the first question, minimum wages have absolutely nothing to do with the platform on undeclared work. i think you misunderstood what i was saying. you realise that there are different activities that the platform will undertake, and each of those will be voluntary. the member states can pick and choose which aspects are particularly important to them, and it seems to me that enhanced cooperation is a very good way of us working together. to bill etheridge: well of course, if you come from your party, you do not want anything at a european level. i beg to differ. i think that there are cases, and this is one, where the european union can add value. those are the cases we should be participating in and joining. it is so much better that all the member states are agreed. we have a way of tackling undeclared work which is indeed cross-border. if you want to go and set up your own organisation in the uk, you are going to have a lot more difficulty, because here we have the means of communicating and dealing with the other countries on a level footing, with nothing compulsory in there.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, the only jobs the employment committee seems able to produce are pretend jobs, sitting on platforms such as this, where civil servants, national agencies and other assorted hangers-on – ably assisted by a secretariat – can gather. we hear a lot in this place about the evil and immoral practices of companies who avoid tax. many of them, of course, come from the luxembourg area, where our own president juncker was prime minister for 15 years. but we should note that tax avoidance, unlike tax evasion, is not illegal, even though many people – particularly those who have never worked in the private sector and had to keep a company in the black – struggle to know the difference. the reason companies avoid tax is that private companies can put their money to better use than the public sector ever will. the gbp 55 million a day britain sends to this place is a prime example. but if we had an economic outlook which was conducive to business – something george osborne does not seem to grasp at all – there would be less need for tax avoidance, undeclared work and social security payments. but this is par for the course for the european union, as is the provision of taxpayers’ money for wining and dining. but we have found money, despite the huge public debt weighing down europe’s economies, to give nearly a quarter of a million euro a year alone for this platform to be frittered away on hotels, restaurant bills and first—class travel. economic history shows that it is deregulation which promotes economic growth and jobs, in which case we need to scrap this ridiculous talking shop – and, while we are at it, let us scrap some jobs in brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg and we might be a bit more competitive. (applause from certain quarters)
blue-card question.– nobody supports undeclared work, but don’t we have to look at the root situation of society? there will, by society’s nature, always be people who fall below the threshold and who carry out undeclared work. surely the argument should be taking the case forward for deregulation – we have got to deregulate, which is the direct opposite of what takes place in the european institutions, and actually give small businesses, small and medium enterprises – the lifeblood, certainly, of the british economy – the opportunity to move forward and actually create employment, rather than over-regulation, which is forcing more people into this area of undeclared work.
madam president, first can i just note that it is a bit odd that today’s debate on this matter occurs after the negotiations have been so painstakingly – and, on behalf of mr pirinski, brilliantly – concluded in the trilogue. why are we having the debate after the matter has already been agreed? surely that of itself is undeclared work by parliament? secondly, i would just like to respond to our colleagues from ukip, although as usual they are not actually here for the debates. (mr etheridge: yes we are!) not the ones who spoke; neither of the ones who spoke have stayed to listen to the rest of the debate, they have done their little bit of theatre and buggered off as usual. they gave us a load of nonsense about how we must not have these measures because it is anti-competitive. they tried to give us lessons about competitiveness and economics, and as usual they do not understand competitiveness and they do not understand economics. the whole point is that, at this end of the labour market, you need regulation in order to have a level playing field. the people who suffer from this lack of regulation, as well as workers, are precisely those small and medium enterprises whose competition is not from massive multinationals, it is from people below them in the labour market not paying taxes, not paying social costs and thereby getting an unfair advantage. if you understood anything you would understand that. (applause)
madam president, you might correct me if i am wrong, but i thought it was a standing procedure that, when there are too many speakers to be taken during ‘catch-the-eye’, there would be one speaker allowed from each group. i do not believe that anyone from the efdd has been called.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, there is a reason why tax should be decided by nation states and not the european union. the diversity of culture across the european continent means each country has its own strengths. for instance, the french have their wine, the germans industry, the spanish tourism. these have not become clichés without some truth behind them. each of these cultures needs to be able to reflect its strength in its own tax system. tax is a subject for each country to address multilaterally, not via the eu, because the eu’s solution to every problem is to harmonise. competition between states in taxation also encourages them to get better value for money when they deliver public services. in this single market, google was free to pay its corporation tax in the lowest tax bracket it could find. the eu’s solution will not be to close loopholes but to hike taxes across the eu, chasing companies who pay their fair share out of the eu entirely and taking thousands of jobs with them. if anyone thinks eu powers over corporation tax are a good thing, just look at what they have done with vat. under eu law, member states have to beg permission from the commission to reduce vat, but there is free rein to increase this tax. look at the uk’s green deal: a 5% vat rate on energy-saving materials. obviously this is a welcome policy to keep heating bills down and make sure people are warm in the winter; but what did the eu do? it took the green deal to the european court of justice, and now the green deal is gone – killed off by unelected judges. the eu’s record on tax kills jobs and stifles innovation. anyone who still thinks corporation tax will be safe with the eu is, frankly, out of their minds and, with the eu’s damaging policies, they may well be out of a job too.
mr president, i can give a cautious welcome to commissioner moscovici’s proposals to introduce new rules on corporate disclosure. requiring multinational companies to provide annual information on sales and assets to tax authorities is necessary to tackle aggressive tax avoidance. the united kingdom has placed greater tax transparency at the heart of our g8 agenda and was one of the member states that initiated the oecd/g20 base erosion and profit shifting project. the commission is right when it asserts that member states cannot tackle this problem alone. but i hope, commissioner, that you also realise that the eu cannot tackle this problem alone either. it has to be dealt with at the international, rather than the european, level. my fear is that there are those in the commission and in this parliament who see this problem as another excuse for more europe. i do not support plans for a common corporate tax base. this is unwanted interference in the rights of member states to decide their own tax policies. by acting through the oecd, we will ensure that member states not only fulfil their obligations but also remain competitive in the international markets. we must ensure that multinational companies pay their fair share of taxes. the best way of ensuring this is to keep tax rates low and tax codes simple. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– i was interested to hear you talk in your speech about competition and free enterprise and drawing the line at an eu-wide corporation tax level. is this something that you would consider yourself personally as a red line, where the uk just simply must always say no? and if the movement towards this continues, what would your decision be on which way you would vote in a referendum, were a common corporation tax part of the deal?
blue-card answer.– i am pleased that tax policy remains an exclusive competence of the member states and that the member states retain a veto, and i am certain that any conservative government now or in the future will veto a common corporate tax base. i therefore see no prospect of it or common tax rates coming into practice.
mr president, i am convinced that the commission’s tax package indicates a genuine desire to challenge the power of multinational corporations to use their cosy relationship with governments to minimise their tax payments. the era of there being one rule for corporations and another for the little people must come to an end. i am less convinced about the commitment of uk chancellor george osborne to the fight against tax avoidance. he may be good at pretending to do something radical in london, but in brussels he is doing everything he can to make sure these proposals do not become law. so i was pleased to see him calling for public country-by-country reporting of company profits and tax returns – but perhaps he needs to check the voting records of his own members here in this house, who recently voted against an amendment to achieve just this. as meps who represent small businesses and citizens who are bearing an unfair tax burden, we are tired of tax competition and even more tired of competition over tax rhetoric. we are tired of politicians who make the right noises when the latest scandal hits the headlines but then vote to protect corporations and their sweetheart tax deals. as greens, we are determined to end corporate tax avoidance, and as shadow rapporteur on the country-by-country reporting part of the package, i will be watching how osborne behaves when the commission package reaches the council. it is then that his words will be tested with action, and the british people will not forgive him if he continues to protect the corporations and his words issued in the heat of the moment are seen to mean nothing.
mr president, we are facing an historic moment when it comes to our tax system. either we take the bull by its horns, or we continue with the system established in 1928 that fails to reflect the globalised and digital world we live in. we need to have a level playing field for european tech companies to grow, to become global leaders. the eu has to lead the action on tax evasion. the absence of the dutch presidency is most disappointing, given that it is the member states which hold the blame for this. commissioner, i welcome your proposals. they underscore the need to share tax information across eu countries, making it harder for multinationals to shift profits to low tax jurisdictions or to avoid paying tax completely anywhere in the european union. we do have to face the fact that it is the legislative framework that allows multinationals to circumvent paying tax legally. so we have to close the loopholes and ensure that it is implemented consistently across the eu, and having an agreed list of tax havens is a significant step forward in the fight against tax avoidance. the times yesterday reported that sweetheart deals like the one for google are not unusual in the uk for the ftse 100 largest companies: bp, royal dutch shell and astrazeneca all failed to pay any corporation tax in the uk in 2014. they have not broken any law, but we need to change this, and we need to do it soon for justice for all our citizens.
president of the republic of estonia.– ladies and gentlemen, i begin by apologising for my voice, but i brought something with me from estonia. ten years ago i left these chambers to take a new post in my country. there was no euro or migration crisis, no idea that european borders could be changed by force, no talk that the european project might fail. also, there were no smart phones, no revelations of internet surveillance. there was no uber, or as we call it, ‘über’. ladies and gentlemen, for nearly three quarters of a century we have repeated the mantra of europe as a project for peace. for the first three quarters of a century, europe – half of europe to be precise – thrived and grew, with our security in large part outsourced, even under the shadow of an aggressive, totalitarian soviet union. for the past quarter century, in the absence of any external threats, we have pursued the reintegration of europe – also to bring back to the fold those nations forced against their will to live under totalitarian rule. today, however, we are confronted with new existential, external – and, as we were reminded in paris last november, internal – threats. we are at a loss, we are fearful, and europe for so many is no longer the answer. i hear ringing in my ears william butler yeats: ʻturning and turning in the widening gyre/ the falcon cannot hear the falconer; /things fall apart; the centre cannot hold;/ mere anarchy is loosed upon the worldʼ. so let us face this new reality. europe is amidst a transformational crisis. do we pull together or do we let others deal with it? a transformational crisis where we shall put to the test all that europe has achieved, step by step, since monnet and schuman. we are approaching a tipping point where either we become stronger or we let fissiparous forces prevail. it is crucial to admit that in this transformational crisis much was foreseeable. we knew there were serious problems but we put off dealing with the internal european crisis of the euro until it was almost unmanageable. we thought, at least until recently, that was the greatest threat to the european project. we were wrong. we knew too, and for a long time, that huge income and democracy differentials between europe and its immediate neighbourhood to the south and east were a time-bomb, ticking away, stayed more by the restraining influence of authoritarian regimes to the south, across the mediterranean and the middle east. today massive migration in the form of flight from the horrific slaughter of civil war and the systematic brutality of daesh, mixed with economic migration from poverty and lack of economic opportunity, threatens europe like never before. schengen is under threat. some countries refuse to take refugees, others are overwhelmed by the numbers flooding into their countries. solidarity is crumbling. some refuse to help, others justly say that solidarity is a two-way street. structural and cohesion funds are also expensive manifestations of solidarity. ladies and gentlemen, we are aghast when we hear of the numbers. a million refugees and migrants to europe this year, predictions of another two million in the next two. yes, these are truly large numbers. yes, they will strain social cohesion and our budgets. and yet we have seen far worse and we have prevailed. in the europe of 1946, germany alone had 12 million internal refugees and another 12 million displaced persons of 20 different nationalities. to resolve this, in three years unrra, the un relief and rehabilitation administration, spent, in today’s money, some eur 50 billion. i mention this number, illustratively, to give us all a sense of perspective to understand what a daunting task our grandparents faced when europe had no institutions, sometimes not even sovereign governments. and all of this before the marshall plan even started. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us now gather our wits and strengths, leave behind the indecision, finger-pointing and ducking of responsibility. we will handle this migration crisis if we show the resolve of our forebears. we must act in solidarity with those member states that bear the brunt of the crisis, and we must accept a functional form of burden-sharing. (applause)we also must take full control over the eu’s external border; we cannot be borderless both inside and outside the union. (applause)we must also have a functioning common asylum policy, especially when it comes to rejecting spurious claims and returning illegal immigrants. is this so difficult when we look back to what europe faced in the years after the second world war? ladies and gentlemen, after the horrors of the paris attacks, i fear the refugee crisis will only further fuel the rise of populist and extremist politics. we will see the argument – indeed we already have – that we cannot accept refugees because they are terrorists, forgetting conveniently that the refugees streaming into europe today have fled the same regime, the same brutality and murder witnessed in paris, but writ large. political speech today sometimes adopts language that a few years ago was found only in anonymous on-line fora. democratic, centrist leaders advocating calm and responsible policies are increasingly under pressure, if not attack. extremist parties and politicians exploit the current refugee crisis like they exploited the economic crisis; they exploit the dissatisfaction of voters with the often anodyne and milquetoast resolve of european leaders. citizens expect decisive responses to crises. when traditional parties do not provide them, they look toward those whose rhetoric sounds decisive yet carries within it the ‘decisiveness’, so-called, of reaction: of simple, often un-european solutions the union was created to rid europe of forever. i say this all, inter alia, as the son of refugees, who fled terror in their homeland in estonia in world war ii, which is why i have this american accent. my parents did not always feel welcome when they reached sweden, but they were given a chance. my hope is that a few decades from now there will be a president of a democratic syria speaking arabic with a german accent. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, while we should have foreseen the euro crisis and the migration crisis, one crisis we did not foresee – indeed to this day it beggars belief – was the invasion and anschluss of crimea, followed by the invasion of the donbas. i shall not dwell on this today, but i must state that in doing what it did two years ago this month, russia violated every foundational european security treaty, beginning with the un charter… (applause)…the 1975 helsinki final act, and the 1990 charter of paris. and it violated as well the 1994 budapest memorandum that granted ukrainians territorial integrity in return for eliminating what was then the world’s third largest nuclear weapons arsenal. in other words, we in europe can no longer assume that the treaties that have underpinned european – i underline european – security since world war ii still hold. the eu has been swift and united in its response to russian aggression, and this has had a deterring effect. the sanctions have proved to be effective. but eu relations with russia will remain strained for some time. strategic patience is the keyword. some call for dialogue, yes, but dialogue itself is not a policy, at least not a policy to counter aggression. that much we should have learned from munich in 1938. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, i have spoken of european crises: some we should have foreseen, others we could not. i would turn now and for the rest of my talk, look at our future and a long-term crisis we can avoid, if we take it seriously before we discover ourselves in its midst: europe’s decreasing competitiveness and productivity in a rapidly-changing, interconnected digital world. together with kaushik basu, the chief economist of the world bank, i have just finished co-chairing the preparation of the bank’s first longer study of the economic potential of information technology and for improving society and governance. the report also outlines the pitfalls of falling behind. in general, europe does well in this long, extensively-researched study, a year and a half in the making. but make no mistake, europe stands to become a second-tier player, with not only the us but also india and china taking leading positions, if we do not keep up. the digital revolution could be a blessing for the single market: today, we can see nascent pan-european markets in sectors like health care, banking and transport that only a few years ago seemed inherently local. yet, sector-by-sector, our legislation remains fractured between member states and unprepared for the digital age. we are losing out to the absence of a single market and losing our best and brightest to where the opportunities for them are greater. i saw this with my own eyes when a 23-year-old who had gotten a little start-up money and i invited him to visit me, said: ‘i am sorry, mr president, i am moving to the united states’. i said: ‘why?’ he said: ‘that’s where the opportunities are’. six months later he had usd 4.6 million invested in his company and three years later he sold it for usd 100 million. he could have stayed in estonia if we had had a single market and the financing. (applause)and i would argue that story is repeated over and over again in every single member state of the union. sixty years ago, when the treaty of rome laid the basis for what we now call the four freedoms of the movement of people, goods, capital and services, there was no digital anything. computing was in its infancy. today we live in a completely different world. unless we recognise how profound a change has occurred, especially in the last 10 to15 years, europe will fall behind and so too will our citizens. meeting the challenge of the digital revolution requires the ingenuity of europe’s entrepreneurs, its businesses, civil society and all levels of government. market forces and business models will be the primary drivers of change and our response, but legislation, all european legislation, must support them. to reflect the magnitude of this change, i propose we add to the four fundamental freedoms a fifth freedom: free movement of data. this fifth freedom could be folded into the existing four freedoms, but today it is distinct enough and all-encompassing enough that i think it should be given a separate status. data is neither a person, a physical good, capital nor a service, but to help all those move data, data must also be able to cross borders. the commission’s proposal for a digital single market will shore up the foundations of the free movement of data, but it must become an abiding value of the internal market, not simply a target to be met by a certain date. but from the citizen’s point of view, what would that fifth freedom mean? for one thing, the free movement of data would mean that we can access services we have paid for throughout the eu. it would mean that online commerce would not be restricted by the country of our bank account, and that national boundaries would no longer determine – arbitrarily in the digital world – which european citizens can purchase digital goods and services and who cannot. today, however, it is easier to ship a bottle of olive oil from sicily to sell north of the arctic circle than to send an itunes song across the border. (applause) and personally, as i am blowing my nose, i can tell you that in my country we have digital prescriptions, which means that i can go to any pharmacy without a prescription written by my doctor and take it out. but i cannot do that as soon as i leave my country, whereas i see no reason why i could not go to a pharmacy in strasbourg and get, when i desperately need it, a prescription that my doctor has written out for me in estonia. it is all possible: technologically there is no problem; it is in our laws. (applause) yet the free movement of data is not just about commerce. like every eu fundamental freedom, the free movement of data comes with rights and responsibilities, chief among these the right to and responsibility for data protection. indeed, ownership of one’s own data and the freedom to decide over its use are essential preconditions for unlocking the value of these data. the new data protection regulation – and i congratulate you on concluding negotiations – recognises this principle in title and substance. it will give individuals real ownership of their data – the right to control its use and pass it on to third parties. this should create new markets and, applied to the public sector, reduce the burdens of paperwork and reporting that now cost european citizens and businesses frustration, time and money. it should also dramatically increase transparency. we must strive to create a data economy where the free movement of data also works for non-personal data. there is tremendous value hidden in the big data generated by our cars, our homes, our refrigerators, increasingly connected devices and industry: what in germany is already called today industrie 4.0. europe must invest in the underlying technologies that create confidence in the security of data flows, especially encryption and block-chain technology, which really would give us genuine security, and we must promote their use. finally, just as the free movement of goods needs ports and roads, we do need modern digital infrastructure to make the fifth freedom possible. 5g and fibre connections need to be truly ubiquitous in europe. this applies especially to the last mile connection, to our homes and businesses. our rural communities that have benefited so immensely from the common agricultural policy require in this new world the same access to the internet as everyone else, those in the cities. inclusiveness is vital. it is vital that the benefits of this digital dividend are shared by all. estonia’s experience at least makes me optimistic. since 2005, we have allowed online voting in nine national, regional and european elections. you might think that this would benefit the young urban elite, the ones who are accustomed to using modern technology, yet extensive sociological research has shown over and over that there is no demographic or urban-rural divide. the pensioner living in a small village is just as likely to vote online, skype with her family and stay in touch with her doctor remotely as are her grandchildren. i mention skype, by the way, because it was invented in estonia, but like so many other good things it now resides in renton, washington, in the united states. at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we must ask: where is the digital revolution taking us? what is the future of work in a digital era? what will happen to the taxi driver’s and the factory worker’s job? and tomorrow, with developing technologies, to the doctor and to the accountant? each previous industrial revolution has increased employment, replacing old jobs with new ones that are higher-skilled, better paying and more challenging. but we do not know yet if history will repeat. we are still at the beginning of the digital revolution, and i have the humility to admit that there are no certain answers. but i do know this: the digital revolution, like the crises of the eurozone, crimea and refugees, call upon us to put forward the best in us at a time when politics play to the basest of our instincts. yet let us not suppose that these challenges will be insurmountable. this is a time to step humbly in the courageous steps of our predecessors, in 1957, in 1989, in 1991, and in 2004. they faced uncertainty, and they stepped forward. if we cede to the populists who say that europe cannot be trusted with its citizens’ interests, ladies and gentlemen, then no crisis, foreseeable or not, will find an adequate solution. be they migration, the euro or even military aggression, not to mention the challenge of technological change, solutions that revert to the nation state will bring us back to a pre-world war ii era. an era where short-termism, beggaring-thy-neighbour, leads inevitably to a tit-for-tat and a loss for all. back to an era where, once again, might makes right. where that leads we have seen too many times in europe’s history. let us hold no illusions of what faces us if we hesitate or stumble, if – to quote yeats again from the same poem, ʻthe best lack all conviction, while the worst/ are full of passionate intensityʼ. the choice is ours. (sustained applause)
mr president, it is actually a legal point that happened to me in my country, that the house will want to hear. i was exonerated of any allegations that were charged against me and i would just like to explain that and to thank my colleagues for supporting me. across this house i have had tremendous support from different individual nations and also colleagues: ‘there but for the grace of god go i’, is what most of you said to me. i would like to thank certain colleagues: stuart agnew, who has been an absolute rock and who never doubted me. i would like to thank paul nuttall and nigel farage for keeping in touch. also my enf colleagues. you know what, you people believed in me. i cannot say thank you to you all, but there are two people i would like to single out: edouard ferrand, an outstanding politician, and marine le pen, magnificent marine. thank you friends, it has been really supportive. (applause from the enf group)
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report, because it creates legislation. ukip is against the eu having any power to legislate so as to make the laws of the united kingdom. ukip opposes the operation of the schengen agreement which is causing so much long-term harm to the peoples of the member states. this is permitting and causing the current crisis in respect of largely economic migrants from africa and the middle east and thereby exacerbating the problems of migration from the eu into the united kingdom.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report, because it creates legislation. ukip is against the eu having any power to legislate so as to make the laws of the united kingdom. ukip opposes the operation of the schengen agreement which is causing so much long-term harm to the peoples of the member states. this is permitting and causing the current crisis in respect of largely economic migrants from africa and the middle east and thereby exacerbating the problems of migration from the eu into the united kingdom.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this text. by way of background information, codification is a bringing together of all the legal text when a regulation or directive (in this case regulation (ec) no 562/2006) has been amended by other legal acts for 10 or more times. this is to clarify the text and make it easier to read. a codification exercise can only make formal modifications; no substantive changes or deletions may be made. the ep always has to check whether a codification only makes formal changes to the legal text. moreover, codification serves to simplify complicated legal texts and, as a result, prevents unnecessary legal challenges in the future.
in writing. ‒ this was a legislative proposal to consolidate the rules on schengen. this provides for the absence of border control of persons crossing the internal borders between member states of the european union. it lays down the rules governing border control and establishes the list of persons to which the absence of internal border control applies. i voted against this proposal because i do not believe in such harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report, because it creates legislation. ukip is against the eu having any power to legislate so as to make the laws of the united kingdom. ukip opposes the operation of the schengen agreement which is causing so much long-term harm to the peoples of the member states. this is permitting and causing the current crisis in respect of largely economic migrants from africa and the middle east and thereby exacerbating the problems of migration from the eu into the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report, because it creates legislation. ukip is against the eu having any power to legislate so as to make the laws of the united kingdom. ukip opposes the operation of the schengen agreement which is causing so much long-term harm to the peoples of the member states. this is permitting and causing the current crisis in respect of largely economic migrants from africa and the middle east and thereby exacerbating the problems of migration from the eu into the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report, because it creates legislation. ukip is against the eu having any power to legislate so as to make the laws of the united kingdom. ukip opposes the operation of the schengen agreement which is causing so much long-term harm to the peoples of the member states. this is permitting and causing the current crisis in respect of largely economic migrants from africa and the middle east and thereby exacerbating the problems of migration from the eu into the united kingdom.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report, because it creates legislation. ukip is against the eu having any power to legislate so as to make the laws of the united kingdom. ukip opposes the operation of the schengen agreement which is causing so much long-term harm to the peoples of the member states. this is permitting and causing the current crisis in respect of largely economic migrants from africa and the middle east and thereby exacerbating the problems of migration from the eu into the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ this codification report contains no new provisions, rather it is just an update of the union code, and represents a simple, effective action by the european parliament allowing the language in this legislation to be standardised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is a straightforward codification procedure of existing texts. there are no substantial changes to the text in question and therefore i voted in favour of the adoption of this position at first reading.
in writing. – my colleagues and i in ukip voted against this report, because it creates legislation. ukip is against the eu having any power to legislate so as to make the laws of the united kingdom. ukip opposes the operation of the schengen agreement which is causing so much long-term harm to the peoples of the member states. this is permitting and causing the current crisis in respect of largely economic migrants from africa and the middle east and thereby exacerbating the problems of migration from the eu into the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as the proposal fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report. however, i do not believe the main problem with schengen is the rules but the failure of political will in a number of member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report, because it creates legislation. ukip is against the eu having any power to legislate so as to make the laws of the united kingdom. ukip opposes the operation of the schengen agreement which is causing so much long-term harm to the peoples of the member states. this is permitting and causing the current crisis in respect of largely economic migrants from africa and the middle east and thereby exacerbating the problems of migration from the eu into the united kingdom.
in writing. - the schengen area is still alive. the fact that we are here today to decide on this report is proof of that. it is of course more or less technical, but it is still a signal that most of us want to keep the schengen system because it is economically and politically beneficial for our citizens.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report, because it creates legislation. ukip is against the eu having any power to legislate so as to make the laws of the united kingdom. ukip opposes the operation of the schengen agreement which is causing so much long-term harm to the peoples of the member states. this is permitting and causing the current crisis in respect of largely economic migrants from africa and the middle east and thereby exacerbating the problems of migration from the eu into the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report, because it creates legislation. ukip is against the eu having any power to legislate so as to make the laws of the united kingdom. ukip opposes the operation of the schengen agreement which is causing so much long-term harm to the peoples of the member states. this is permitting and causing the current crisis in respect of largely economic migrants from africa and the middle east and thereby exacerbating the problems of migration from the eu into the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ there are actually no new provisions in this codification file; just a simple update to the union code. this is just an example of the european parliament effectively making eu legislation simpler and allowing for the language to be standardised.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which is a purely technical file. it merely updates the union code on this issue.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this recommendation. the vote was procedural and technical. the recommendation accepted amendments to the 1998 protocol of the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. the protocol has been updated at international level and some of the updating amendments need to be ratified by the parties to the convention. therefore, we voted in favour of this dossier.
in writing. ‒ i believe in the importance of improving the air quality not just in europe but across the globe. however i do not believe that the commission’s proposal to expand legislation in this area is the correct way to achieve this. the european union’s policies on energy and climate have already caused irreparable damage to the united kingdom’s industry and economy. i abstained on this proposal, as i agree with the aim to improve air quality in europe but i believe that this legislation will not achieve this.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the ratification of this recommendation, which is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the amendment, as it is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the amendment, as it is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is intended to protect the human environment against air pollution. several studies performed between 1972 and 1977 had shown that air pollutants could travel several thousand kilometres before deposition. problems caused by air pollution therefore need to be addressed on the international level. signed in 1979 and entering into force in 1983, the convention was the first international legally binding instrument in this area. it has created the framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and to the environment caused by transboundary air pollution. the convention identifies the executive secretary of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) as its secretariat.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the amendment on heavy metals to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, because i see it as an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ my labour colleagues and i support the ratification of the amendment, which is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i believe in the importance of improving air pollution not just in europe but across the world. however i do not believe that the commission’s proposal to expand legislation in this area is the correct way to achieve this. the european union’s policies on energy and climate have already caused irreparable damage to the united kingdom’s industry and economy. i abstained on this proposal as i agree with the aim to improve air pollution in europe but i believe that this legislation will not achieve this.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation, which is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the amendment, as it is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the amendments, as they constitute an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is intended to protect the human environment against air pollution. several studies performed between 1972 and 1977 had shown that air pollutants could travel several thousand kilometres before deposition. problems caused by air pollution therefore need to be addressed on the international level. signed in 1979 and entering into force in 1983, the convention was the first international legally binding instrument in this area. it has created the framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and to the environment caused by transboundary air pollution. the convention identifies the executive secretary of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) as its secretariat.
in writing. ‒ this vote represented the second amendment to this protocol that we voted through today. this amendment pertaining to long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants represents an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the envrionment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support the ratification of the amendment, which is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with ukraine.
in writing. – ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with ukraine.
in writing. – we abstained on this report. ukraine currently possesses a poor human rights record, which includes questions over access to fair trials and other procedural rights, and now is therefore not the time to enhance judicial cooperation. if the rights of defence are absent, decent prison conditions lacking and basic rights not respected or implemented in national law, why should we then conclude agreements in the judicial sphere with this country? furthermore, the commission proposed a eurojust regulation giving the european parliament a bigger role in drafting cooperation agreements; however, this agreement was just presented for consultation. these factors combined made it impossible for us to support this report. we therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not believe that the european union should be negotiating agreements on behalf of the elected government of the united kingdom. this report is essentially allowing the expansion of the european union’s power by beginning the accession process for ukraine.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with ukraine
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with ukraine.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with ukraine.
in writing. – ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement between eurojust and ukraine, which allows for the mutual exchange of information and the secondment of liaison officers or liaison magistrates to eurojust. cooperation of this kind is vital to tackle cross-border serious crime both within and outside the european union. i am also satisfied with eurojust’s joint supervisory body’s positive opinion on the data protection provisions in this agreement. in order for international cooperation in the fight against crime to be successful it is imperative that law-abiding citizens have confidence in the safety of their own personal data under these agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the proposed approval of cooperation agreements between eurojust and ukraine, with the aim of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the role of eurojust is important for the eu to enhance its judicial cooperation role and to tackle organised crime and terrorism, something which does not respect borders and something which we need to find transnational solutions to. hence i think it is important to continue to support the work of eurojust and this is why i voted in favour of the report today.
in writing. – ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i supported the conclusion of the cooperation agreement, as it would aid and reinforce the fight against serious crime and would contribute to enhancing judicial co-operation in particular in the field of organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this proposal on cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine with the aim of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the cooperation agreement between ukraine and the european agency eurojust. strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime is very beneficial, given that ukraine is an important neighbour of the european union and coordination of action can help to detect crimes. that is why i support the report.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with ukraine.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with ukraine.
in writing. ‒ the role of eurojust is important for the eu to enhance its judicial cooperation role and to tackle organised crime and terrorism, something which does not respect borders and something which we need to find transnational solutions to. hence i think it is important to continue to support the work of eurojust and this is why i voted in favour of the report today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the proposed approval of cooperation agreements between eurojust and ukraine, with the aim of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime. i believe that these measures will aid in the fight against both serious organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with montenegro.
in writing. – ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with montenegro.
in writing. – on the griesbeck report, we abstained. this report is similar to the kaufmann report except that it concerns montenegro. while montenegro may not as be corrupt as ukraine (listed at place 61, the same as italy in the corruption index), to say that it has a well-functioning legal system that has full respect for human rights would be to give it too much credit. montenegro is an official eu membership candidate country, but it has still some way to go. furthermore, the commission proposed a eurojust regulation giving the european parliament a bigger role in drafting cooperation agreements; however, this agreement was just presented for consultation. these factors combined made it impossible for us to support this report. we therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not believe that the european union should be negotiating agreements on behalf of the elected government of the united kingdom. this report is essentially allowing the expansion of the european union’s power by beginning the accession process for montenegro.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with montenegro.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with montenegro.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with montenegro.
in writing. – ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with montenegro.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement between eurojust and montenegro which allows for the mutual exchange of information and the secondment of liaison officers or liaison magistrates to eurojust. cooperation of this kind is vital to tackle cross-border serious crime both within and outside the european union. i am also satisfied with eurojust’s joint supervisory body’s positive opinion on the data protection provisions in this agreement. in order for international cooperation in the fight against crime to be successful it is imperative that law-abiding citizens have confidence in the safety of their own personal data under these agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the proposed approval of cooperation agreements between eurojust and montenegro, with the aim of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ as with the vote before this relating to the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine, this agreement also enhances the judicial cooperation role that the eu has to tackle organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. – ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. my colleagues and i have therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with montenegro.
in writing. ‒ i supported the conclusion of the cooperation agreement, as it would aid and reinforce the fight against serious crime and would contribute to enhancing judicial co-operation in particular in the field of organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement between eurojust and montenegro with the aim of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with montenegro.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of ukraine, i consider the cooperation agreement between montenegro and the european agency eurojust to be beneficial. strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime is essential, given that montenegro is also a significant neighbour of the european union and coordination of action can help to detect a range of crimes. that's why i endorsed the report.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with montenegro.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of any eu judicial forces and we believe this agreement expands the power and influence of eurojust. ukip has therefore voted against this eurojust agreement with montenegro.
in writing. ‒ as with the vote before this relating to the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine, this agreement also enhances the judicial cooperation role that the eu has to tackle organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the proposed approval of cooperation agreements between eurojust and montenegro, with the aim of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime. i believe that these measures will aid in the fight against both serious organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. – mep robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz has been charged with exceeding the speed limit in a built-up area. he had requested an annulment of the fine on the ground that the offence took place while he was performing parliamentary work – going to brussels to attend a meeting of the european parliament. exceeding the speed limit does not constitute part of an meps duties, therefore i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mep robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should be a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i voted to waive the parliamentary immunity. i do wish to note, however, my annoyance at the amount of public time spent dealing with a minor speeding offence. however, ultimately that is a matter for the people of poland rather than the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive the immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive the immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the waiving of the immunity of mr iwaszkiewicz. in this case, the request for waiver of the immunity of mr iwaszkiewicz has been submitted as a result of an alleged offence consisting of exceeding the speed limit in a built-up area. it appears from the file that mr iwaszkiewicz admitted on 5 june 2015 that he was driving the vehicle at the relevant time, although he had requested earlier, on 8 february 2015, the annulment of the fine on the ground that the offence took place while performing parliamentary work – going to brussels to attend a meeting of the european parliament. from the circumstances of the case it appears that the alleged offence and the ensuing prosecution clearly have nothing to do with the position of mr iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament and that there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of removing the immunity: the law should be allowed to run its course.
in writing. ‒ the polish constitution grants immunity to parliamentarians for speeding when driving, which is why a vote must be performed in order to allow mr iwaszkeiwicz to be brought to justice over a traffic infraction that he made in september 2014. mr iwaszkiewicz had admitted that he was driving the vehicle in june 2015, but argued for the annulment of the fine on the ground that the offence took place while performing parliamentary work – going to brussels to attend a meeting of the european parliament. from the circumstances of the case it appears that the alleged offence and the ensuing prosecution clearly have nothing to do with the position of mr iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. – mep robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz has been charged with exceeding the speed limit in a built-up area. he had requested an annulment of the fine on the ground that the offence took place while he was performing parliamentary work – going to brussels to attend a meeting of the european parliament. exceeding the speed limit does not constitute part of an meps duties, therefore we voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mep robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should be a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i voted to waive the parliamentary immunity. i do wish to note, however, my annoyance at the amount of public time spent dealing with a minor speeding offence. however, ultimately that is a matter for the people of poland rather than the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive the immunity.
in writing. ‒ i support the waiving of mr iwaszkiewicz’s immunity. in this case, the request for waiver of the immunity of mr iwaszkiewicz has been submitted as a result of an alleged offence consisting of exceeding the speed limit in a built-up area. it appears from the file that mr iwaszkiewicz has not admitted that he was driving the vehicle at the relevant time, nor that he accepts the fine. from the circumstances of the case it appears that the alleged offence and the ensuing prosecution clearly have nothing to do with the position of mr iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament and that there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of removing the immunity: the law should be allowed to run its course.
in writing. ‒ as with the previous vote, the polish constitution grants immunity to parliamentarians for traffic offences, such as speeding, when performing their parliamentary duties. similarly, i do not wish to stand in the way of the course of justice and i supported the vote to have mr. iwaszkiewicz tried for this offence. this case has a slight difference from the previous one, as mr. iwaszkiewicz does not accept that he was driving the vehicle at the time of the allegation and does not accept the fine; if the member desires to clear his name of this accusation, i believe that it should be taken through the judicial system.
in writing. – we voted against the waiver of the immunity of florian philippot on the grounds of the fundamental right to freedom of expression and, moreover, on the right to express opinion in the course of an elected representative’s parliamentary duties. it would be a serious limitation of one’s functioning as a member of the european parliament if one could not express matters of concern for fear of being sued for defamation. it is important to remember that according to article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union it is prohibited to bring any form of civil or criminal proceedings against members of parliament in respect of opinions expressed in the performance of their duties. moreover, in the judgment of the court of justice in the patriciello case (c-163/10), it was found that this absolute immunity implies that opinions cannot be challenged, whether they are expressed during official meetings of parliament or elsewhere, for example in the media, when there is a link between the opinion expressed and parliamentary duties. to allow for the waiver of parliamentary immunity in this case would set in place a dangerous precedent and would ultimately undermine fundamental freedoms for all, regardless of political persuasion.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should be a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i voted for the committee of legal affairs’ recommendation not to lift mr philippot’s immunity as he was carrying out his mandate as an mep. i believe that defamation should be a case for the civil courts not the criminal.
in writing. ‒ article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union stipulates that members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties. i therefore voted not to waive mr philippot's immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive the immunity.
in writing. ‒ article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union stipulates that members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties. i therefore voted not to waive mr philippot's immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of keeping the immunity of florian philppot as he was acting within his work as an mep.
in writing. ‒ as far as i understand, a french court has asked for the immunity of florian philippot mep to be waived for the purposes of criminal proceedings instituted by a country outside the eu, namely qatar, which accuses the politician of having defamed the country, claiming that qatar finances terrorism. while i may not agree with a lot of what mr philippot and his party believe, it is important that meps be allowed to express their opinions. both from a moral and legal stand point, the conditions for the waiver are not met.
mr president, yet again we are attacking the symptom rather than the underlying disease. why it is that people are pushed into the black economy? because the regulated economy is over—regulated: taxes are too high, working conditions are uncongenial, and it therefore pays people to take their work elsewhere. the solution is not yet more of the medicine that caused the disease in the first place. if we have a problem caused by excessive state intervention, we are not going to solve it with yet more state intervention. we could have more and more inspectors and licensers and clerks trying to police a system with dwindling tax revenue caused by the black economy, but we are simply going to be exacerbating the problem. what is the real answer? lower, flatter, simpler taxes so that people are not driven into the black economy in the first place.
mr president, we have just had a debate on undeclared work, better known as the black economy. the irony of the debate was rich. we had the eu discussing why people choose to work outside of the normal rules and regulations when many of the rules and regulations, the anti-competitive things that cause problems, have come from the eu. we have the british conservatives, and one of my local colleagues from the british conservatives, saying: ‘what a great thing this is, this shows how good the eu is, because it is not enforceable.’ so you might as well not be in it anyway. we have got the british labour party, another one from the west midlands where i am from, saying: ‘this is what we should be talking about: competitiveness. we will teach you all a lesson in competitiveness.’ the british labour party that virtually destroyed our country’s economy, discussing competitiveness. the irony of it is so rich; just as with so many other things in this place, you just could not make it up.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation because it will create a taxpayer-funded junket for civil servants, national agencies and social partners to wine and dine in brussels. the platform will produce advice and non-binding guidelines on how to tackle undeclared work. an article in the legislation specifically says that the commission will reimburse travel and, where appropriate, subsistence expenses for members, alternates, observers and invited experts. in the original commission proposal it states: ‘up to eur 224 000 per year will be used to reimburse the costs related to participation in the platform meetings.’ ukip has no problem with individual countries working together to share best practices and deal with this issue. however only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayer’s money on such vanity projects.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislation because it will create a taxpayer-funded junket for civil servants, national agencies and social partners to wine and dine in brussels. the platform will produce advice and non-binding guidelines on how to tackle undeclared work. an article in the legislation specifically says that the commission will reimburse travel and, where appropriate, subsistence expenses for members, alternates, observers and invited experts. in the original commission proposal it states: ‘up to eur 224 000 per year will be used to reimburse the costs related to participation in the platform meetings.’ ukip has no problem with individual countries working together to share best practices and deal with this issue. however only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayer’s money on such vanity projects.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report, which improved a commission proposal to establish a european platform to fight against undeclared work by ensuring that bogus self-employment is included. undeclared work deprives workers of social protection; it lowers labour standards and increases health and safety risks. it undermines public finances and social security systems, and it creates a race to the bottom based on unfair competition. this platform aims to bring together the various enforcement bodies in each member state involved in the fight against undeclared work such as labour and social security inspectorates, and tax and migration authorities. it is an important step forward. until now, undeclared work, falsely declared work and bogus self-employment have been dealt with sporadically and in an uncoordinated way. the platform will provide a framework for more effective cooperation. we particularly welcome the inclusion of bogus self-employment in the platform, as this is a major problem across ireland, especially in the construction industry. big contractors deliberately label workers as being self-employed rather than direct labour to cut costs on social insurance payments. the workers miss out on their entitlements and the state misses out on tax revenue.
in writing. ‒ the report proposed the creation of a ‘platform’ in brussels to produce analysis on tackling undeclared work. undeclared work is defined as ‘any paid activities that are lawful as regards their nature but not declared to public authorities, taking into account the difference in regulatory systems of the member states’. it proposes that eur 244 000 be used to reimburse the costs of the platform meetings. the report would allow for an all-expenses-paid junket for civil servants and national agencies in brussels. i do not believe that british taxpayers’ money should be used to fund junkets for bureaucrats. i believe that this issue would be best handled by member states and not the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation because it will create a taxpayer—funded junket for civil servants, national agencies and social partners to wine and dine in brussels. the platform will produce advice and non-binding guidelines on how to tackle undeclared work. an article in the legislation specifically says that the commission will reimburse travel and, where appropriate, subsistence expenses for members, alternates, observers and invited experts. in the original commission proposal it states: ‘up to €224 000 per year will be used to reimburse the costs related to participation in the platform meetings.’ ukip has no problem with individual countries working together to share best practises and deal with this issue. however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation because it will create a taxpayer—funded junket for civil servants, national agencies and social partners to wine and dine in brussels. the platform will produce advice and non-binding guidelines on how to tackle undeclared work. an article in the legislation specifically says that the commission will reimburse travel and, where appropriate, subsistence expenses for members, alternates, observers and invited experts. in the original commission proposal it states: ‘up to €224 000 per year will be used to reimburse the costs related to participation in the platform meetings.’ ukip has no problem with individual countries working together to share best practises and deal with this issue. however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation because it will create a taxpayer—funded junket for civil servants, national agencies and social partners to wine and dine in brussels. the platform will produce advice and non-binding guidelines on how to tackle undeclared work. an article in the legislation specifically says that the commission will reimburse travel and, where appropriate, subsistence expenses for members, alternates, observers and invited experts. in the original commission proposal it states: ‘up to €224 000 per year will be used to reimburse the costs related to participation in the platform meetings.’ ukip has no problem with individual countries working together to share best practises and deal with this issue. however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislation because it will create a taxpayer funded junket for civil servants, national agencies and social partners to wine and dine in brussels. the platform will produce advice and non-binding guidelines on how to tackle undeclared work. an article in the legislation specifically says that the commission will reimburse travel and, where appropriate, subsistence expenses for members, alternates, observers and invited experts. in the original commission proposal it states: ‘up to €224 000 per year will be used to reimburse the costs related to participation in the platform meetings.’ ukip has no problem with individual countries working together to share best practises and deal with this issue. however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the eu’s decision to establish a platform to tackle the problem of undeclared work in the eu. given the freedom of movement in the eu, it is pertinent that member states are encouraged to cooperate in this area and tackle employers who impose undeclared work and yet hide behind borders. there are many negative consequences of undeclared work, which in the uk is estimated to be 10 % of gdp.
in writing. ‒ undeclared work has serious implications for the economy and deprives workers of their basic rights and often puts them in hazardous working conditions. i welcome this decision of the eu to establish a platform to tackle the problems of undeclared work in the eu. it is right that member states work with each other to tackle those employers who perpetrate undeclared work and attempt to hide behind borders. in the context of the uk, undeclared work is estimated to be equivalent to 10% of the gdp. hence, i believe that this package provides a much needed format for such cooperation and addresses the new challenges that the eu faces, such as the labour market integrating the recent influx of refugees.
in writing. ‒ along with other labour meps, i welcome the decision to establish a platform to tackle the problem of undeclared work in the eu. member states should be working together to take on those employers who utilise undeclared, cash-in-hand work. many workers are being forced to sign contracts that class them as self-employed purely to circumvent the employers’ obligations. this means many are missing out on sick pay, holiday pay and are denied access to employment tribunals. we also need to tackle this problem at source, reducing levels of poverty and inequality.
in writing. ‒ undeclared work leaves workers vulnerable to exploitation, tax payers short changed and responsible employers undermined. 600 000 undeclared workers in britain need today’s recommendations for european action to bring them in to the formal economy, to prevent and deter undeclared work, now and in the future. a british government study described the difference between the average ‘value added’ in national statistics and the local calculation as one measure of the ‘shadow economy’ and thus the incidence of undeclared work. in my own constituency it estimates this to be 15% in lowestoft, 17% in clacton, 20% in southend and 23% in great yarmouth. people here are left unprotected, can be fired without warning, do not receive holiday or sick pay, and have reduced benefit entitlements. the root causes of this undeclared work derive from economic failure, low social protection and higher poverty levels. the communities i represent in the east of england deserve better. european action to promote worker protection will mean fewer undeclared workers. but it also means better protection for all those who suffer low pay and job insecurity. let’s provide a hand-up to protect those forced to rely on cash-in-hand.
in writing. – my fellow ukip mep’s voted against this legislation because it will create a taxpayer funded junket for civil servants, national agencies and social partners to wine and dine in brussels. the platform will produce advice and non-binding guidelines on how to tackle undeclared work. an article in the legislation specifically says that the commission will reimburse travel and, where appropriate, subsistence expenses for members, alternates, observers and invited experts. in the original commission proposal it states: ‘up to eur 224 000 per year will be used to reimburse the costs related to participation in the platform meetings.’ ukip has no problem with individual countries working together to share best practises and deal with this issue. however only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the eu’s decision to establish a platform to tackle the problem of undeclared work in the eu. with the freedom of movement across the eu, it is right that member states work with one another to tackle those employers perpetrating undeclared work who attempt to hide behind borders. undeclared work has multiple highly negative consequences: severe exploitation and precarious working and living conditions for millions of workers throughout the union, grossly unfair competition that is deeply disruptive to the single market, as well as serious losses to the budgets and social security systems of the member states.
in writing. ‒ in its proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on establishing a european platform, the commission has given precedence to the enforcement approach aimed at preventing and deterring undeclared work. this envisages enhanced cooperation for ‘combating’ labour law infringements, tax avoidance and breaches of social security requirements – doubtless issues of grave concern in themselves. however, there is growing realisation that enforcement must be coupled with pro-active enabling policies and measures targeted towards the regularization of jobs that remain undeclared, such as income tax relief, tax reduction and subsidy schemes. the undiminishing practices of undeclared work throughout member states demonstrate that there is both demand and supply for the jobs involved – hence the need not to suppress, but rather to integrate them into the formal range of rules and regulations of the social market economy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the eu’s decision to establish a platform to tackle the problem of undeclared work in the eu. with the freedom of movement across the eu, it is right that member states work with one another to tackle employers who perpetrate undeclared work and attempt to hide behind borders. undeclared work has multiple highly negative consequences: severe exploitation and precarious working and living conditions for millions of workers throughout the union, grossly unfair competition that is deeply disruptive to the single market, as well as serious losses to the budgets and social security systems of member states. in the uk, undeclared work is estimated to be equivalent to 10 % of gdp.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation because it will create a taxpayer funded junket for civil servants, national agencies and social partners to wine and dine in brussels. the platform will produce advice and non-binding guidelines on how to tackle undeclared work. an article in the legislation specifically says that the commission will reimburse travel and, where appropriate, subsistence expenses for members, alternates, observers and invited experts. in the original commission proposal it states: ‘up to €224 000 per year will be used to reimburse the costs related to participation in the platform meetings.’ ukip has no problem with individual countries working together to share best practises and deal with this issue. however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation because it will create a taxpayer funded junket for civil servants, national agencies and social partners to wine and dine in brussels. the platform will produce advice and non-binding guidelines on how to tackle undeclared work. an article in the legislation specifically says that the commission will reimburse travel and, where appropriate, subsistence expenses for members, alternates, observers and invited experts. in the original commission proposal it states: ‘up to €224 000 per year will be used to reimburse the costs related to participation in the platform meetings.’ ukip has no problem with individual countries working together to share best practises and deal with this issue. however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation because it will create a taxpayer funded junket for civil servants, national agencies and social partners to wine and dine in brussels. the platform will produce advice and non-binding guidelines on how to tackle undeclared work. an article in the legislation specifically says that the commission will reimburse travel and, where appropriate, subsistence expenses for members, alternates, observers and invited experts. in the original commission proposal it states: ‘up to €224 000 per year will be used to reimburse the costs related to participation in the platform meetings.’ ukip has no problem with individual countries working together to share best practises and deal with this issue. however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
in writing. ‒ undeclared work has serious implications for the economy of the west midlands and deprives workers of their basic rights and often puts them in hazardous working conditions. i welcome this decision of the eu to establish a platform to tackle the problems of undeclared work in the eu. it is right that member states work with each other to tackle those employers who perpetrate undeclared work and attempt to hide behind borders. in the context of the uk, undeclared work is estimated to be equivalent to 10% of the gdp. hence, i believe that this package provides a much needed format for such cooperation and addresses the new challenges that the eu faces, such as the labour market integrating the recent influx of refugees.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the eu’s decision to establish a platform to tackle the problem of undeclared work in the eu. with the freedom of movement across the eu, it is right that member states work with one another to tackle employers who perpetrate undeclared work and attempt to hide behind borders. undeclared work has multiple highly negative consequences: severe exploitation and precarious working and living conditions for millions of workers throughout the union, grossly unfair competition that is deeply disruptive to the single market, as well as serious losses to the budgets and social security systems of member states. in the uk, undeclared work is estimated to be equivalent to 10 % of gdp.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of this report on the negotiations between the council, commission and parliament on the issue of undeclared work. while freedom of movement has brought many great benefits, in employment, opportunities to travel and link with people all over europe, one of those benefits should not be the ability to avoid the taxman through undeclared work in other member states. we need to work at an eu level to tackle this problem. undeclared work has multiple and highly negative consequences: severe exploitation and precarious working and living conditions for millions of workers throughout the union, grossly unfair competition that is deeply disruptive to the single market, as well as serious losses to the budgets and social security systems of member states. in the uk, undeclared work is estimated to be equivalent to 10% of gdp.
mr president, as a labour mep i am committed to protecting the eu nature directives and will work to ensure that the fitness check is not used as an excuse to water down or weaken legislation. it is imperative that the idea of reducing red tape is not used to mask the cutting of vital environmental protection. the birds directive and the habitat directive are pieces of legislation which eu citizens care deeply about. as part of the fitness check, a public consultation on the benefits of the directives was launched and over 100 000 citizens from the uk alone spoke up in favour of environmental laws stemming from european cooperation. in scotland the effect of these laws can be seen clearly by the designation of natura sites, and these sites help to conserve and protect scotland’s native wildlife, as well as migratory birds which visit from other member states. there are an incredible 293 special areas of conservation, and with regard to birds there are 153 special areas of protection. the habitats and birds directives have a large and visible impact in securing biodiversity in scotland. i therefore support proposals to ensure that the legislation is being implemented correctly and as effectively as possible.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe in the importance of preserving nature reserves and natural habitats for wildlife in britain and in europe. however, we believe that this task should be a national, not european, responsibility, and we will therefore oppose new eu legislation in this area. nevertheless, we will support all amendments aimed at improving the existing legislation on this issue. we believe that the best people to decide on natural habitats in britain are the british people. we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy. it has destroyed our fish stocks and caused widespread deforestation with its policy on bio-fuels.
in writing. – we in ukip believe in the importance of preserving nature reserves and natural habitats for wildlife in britain and in europe. however, we believe that this task should be a national, not european, responsibility, and we will therefore oppose new eu legislation in this area. nevertheless, we will support all amendments aimed at improving the existing legislation on this issue. we believe that the best people to decide on natural habitats in britain are the british people. we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy. it has destroyed our fish stocks and caused widespread deforestation with its policy on bio-fuels.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report on the mid-term review of the 2020 biodiversity strategy. given the very sorry state of biodiversity in europe we were extremely pleased to see cross-party support for strong demands to protect nature. it is extremely important that the european parliament has added its voice (with a very large majority) to support the half a million citizens who have called on the european commission to protect the nature directives – i.e. the birds and habitats directives. it is disappointing that the commission continues to allow doubt to surround the future of these effective and valuable pieces of legislation which do not need re-opened but require a stronger effort to better implement them. we were particularly pleased to see a call for no new authorisations for hydraulic fracturing operations across europe given the risks and negative climate, environmental and biodiversity impacts involved in the fracking process.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is important to protect our wildlife and its habitats. the united kingdom and my own constituency in the north east is full of beautiful landscapes, unique wildlife and vegetation. i want to preserve it for future generations. however, the eu environmental policies have caused irreparable damage to our fish stocks, caused great damage to our agriculture industry and caused widespread deforestation. this report uses the 'precautionary principle' to block progress and innovative technology that could possibly help maintain our environment. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe in the importance of preserving nature reserves and natural habitats for wildlife in britain and in europe. however, we believe that this task should be a national, not european, responsibility, and we will therefore oppose new eu legislation in this area. nevertheless, we will support all amendments aimed at improving the existing legislation on this issue. we believe that the best people to decide on natural habitats in britain are the british people. we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy. it has destroyed our fish stocks and caused widespread deforestation with its policy on bio-fuels.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe in the importance of preserving nature reserves and natural habitats for wildlife in britain and in europe. however, we believe that this task should be a national, not european, responsibility, and we will therefore oppose new eu legislation in this area. nevertheless, we will support all amendments aimed at improving the existing legislation on this issue. we believe that the best people to decide on natural habitats in britain are the british people. we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy. it has destroyed our fish stocks and caused widespread deforestation with its policy on bio-fuels.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe in the importance of preserving nature reserves and natural habitats for wildlife in britain and in europe. however, we believe that this task should be a national, not european, responsibility, and we will therefore oppose new eu legislation in this area. nevertheless, we will support all amendments aimed at improving the existing legislation on this issue. we believe that the best people to decide on natural habitats in britain are the british people. we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy. it has destroyed our fish stocks and caused widespread deforestation with its policy on bio-fuels.
in writing. – we in ukip believe in the importance of preserving nature reserves and natural habitats for wildlife in britain and in europe. however, we believe that this task should be a national, not european, responsibility, and we will therefore oppose new eu legislation in this area. nevertheless, we will support all amendments aimed at improving the existing legislation on this issue. we believe that the best people to decide on natural habitats in britain are the british people. we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy. it has destroyed our fish stocks and caused widespread deforestation with its policy on bio-fuels.
in writing. ‒ i support the push to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020, especially the efforts to restore ecosystems in so far as is feasible, which both benefits the landscape and helps protect endangered species. i welcome the opposition in this report to any revision of the nature directives and its focus instead on better enforcement and improved guidelines. there were a number of elements introduced into this report at committee stage which i think are unwise, particularly on the budget and cap policy, and my group has roll-called these to show our opposition to them, but overall i welcome the direction of this report.
in writing. ‒ labour meps are committed to protecting the eu nature directives and will work to ensure that the commission’s fitness check is not used as an excuse to water down or weaken the legislation, and we call on the commission not to reopen or revise the birds and habitats directives, but to step up efforts to help member states’ implementation. for this reason, labour meps voted in favour of the environment committee’s report on the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which calls on member states to show more ambition in fully implementing the eu biodiversity strategy. along with my labour colleagues, i am committed to protecting the eu nature directives, and will ensure that this is not used as a subtext to weaken or dilute existing regulation in this area.
in writing. – the uk conservative delegation supports eu aims to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020 and fully supports the report’s calls for greater ambition and effort in the implementation and enforcement of the nature directives. however, the delegation believes that the report’s position on gmos, the use of neonicotinoids and the practice of hydraulic fracking does not adequately reflect the science, and could result in restrictions on certain practices and products without adequate evidence of risk to the environment. in light of this, uk conservative meps requested a series of roll call, separate and split votes on paragraphs 81, 82 and 88 of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, which ‘emphasises that biodiversity loss has devastating economic costs for society, which until now have not been integrated sufficiently into economic and other policies; considers it vital to recognise that investing in biodiversity is essential from a socio-economic point of view; notes that one in six jobs in the eu depends to some extent on nature and biodiversity; stresses that biodiversity has significant potential to create new skills, jobs and business opportunities; welcomes methods for measuring the economic value of biodiversity; considers that these instruments can raise awareness, improve the use of available resources and result in better decision-making’.
in writing. ‒ i am proud to be one of the massive 592 meps today to tell the european commission you are wrong to threaten to re-open and potentially weaken the eu birds and habitats directives. as the local member of the european parliament for sandy, bedfordshire, where the royal society for the protection of birds is based, i am proud to have joined their ‘nature alert’ campaign to protect these nature directives. the rspb rightly insists the existing framework is absolutely vital for europe to meet biodiversity targets and, rather than being weakened, should be fully enforced and implemented. over half a million people – a record – backed the laws during the public consultation which ended last july – more even than the number which responded to the ‘ttip’ consultation. 7 149 were in my own east of england constituency, and 100 000 from the united kingdom overall. i am disappointed that the three ukip meps from my region were amongst just 52 who opposed this resolution, and that one of our three conservative meps also failed to support it. for those who accuse europe of a ‘democratic deficit’, today is a victory for democracy. but above all, it is a victory for nature conservation.
in writing. – we in ukip believe in the importance of preserving nature reserves and natural habitats for wildlife in britain and in europe. however, we believe that this task should be a national, not european, responsibility, and we will therefore oppose new eu legislation in this area. nevertheless, we will support all amendments aimed at improving the existing legislation on this issue. we believe that the best people to decide on natural habitats in britain are the british people. we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy. it has destroyed our fish stocks and caused widespread deforestation with its policy on bio-fuels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. labour meps are committed to protecting the eu nature directives and will work to ensure that the fitness check is not used as an excuse to water down or weaken the legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, which ‘emphasises that biodiversity loss has devastating economic costs for society, which until now have not been integrated sufficiently into economic and other policies; considers it vital to recognise that investing in biodiversity is essential from a socio-economic point of view; notes that one in six jobs in the eu depends to some extent on nature and biodiversity; stresses that biodiversity has significant potential to create new skills, jobs and business opportunities; welcomes methods for measuring the economic value of biodiversity; considers that these instruments can raise awareness, improve the use of available resources and result in better decision-making’.
in writing. ‒ labour meps are committed to protecting the eu nature directives and will work to ensure that the fitness check is not used as an excuse to water down or weaken the legislation. for this reason, labour meps voted in favour of the environment committee’s report on the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's target to halt loss of biodiversity by 2020. biodiversity is critical to both our environmental and economic well-being. with only one out of the six specific targets on track to be achieved, the disappointing reality is that we are a long way off from achieving the commission's goals. the report calls for more ambitious means to achieve such vital targets. it calls for better implementation and further enforcement of existing polices such as the nature directives. strengthening the existing mechanism will enable a more cohesive measurement of the economic value biodiversity can offer. i acknowledge agriculture has an inherent role to play in conserving biodiversity. yet we must be cautious to ensure that the targets set out establish a complementary relationship between biodiversity and agriculture rather than a conflicting one.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe in the importance of preserving nature reserves and natural habitats for wildlife in britain and in europe. however, we believe that this task should be a national, not european, responsibility, and we will therefore oppose new eu legislation in this area. nevertheless, we will support all amendments aimed at improving the existing legislation on this issue. we believe that the best people to decide on natural habitats in britain are the british people. we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy. it has destroyed our fish stocks and caused widespread deforestation with its policy on bio-fuels.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe in the importance of preserving nature reserves and natural habitats for wildlife in britain and in europe. however, we believe that this task should be a national, not european, responsibility, and we will therefore oppose new eu legislation in this area. nevertheless, we will support all amendments aimed at improving the existing legislation on this issue. we believe that the best people to decide on natural habitats in britain are the british people. we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy. it has destroyed our fish stocks and caused widespread deforestation with its policy on bio-fuels.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe in the importance of preserving nature reserves and natural habitats for wildlife in britain and in europe. however, we believe that this task should be a national, not european, responsibility, and we will therefore oppose new eu legislation in this area. nevertheless, we will support all amendments aimed at improving the existing legislation on this issue. we believe that the best people to decide on natural habitats in britain are the british people. we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy. it has destroyed our fish stocks and caused widespread deforestation with its policy on bio-fuels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the full implementation of the nature directives is a necessary precondition to achieve the 2020 biodiversity target. the protection of the nature directives should ensure that the fitness check is not used as an excuse to water down or weaken the legislation, something which i am committed to and which will safeguard the biodiversity of the greenspaces and rural areas of the west midlands.
in writing. ‒ i am absolutely committed to protecting the biodiversity of wales. to achieve this, i am also committed to protecting the eu nature directives and i will work to ensure that the fitness check is not used as an excuse to water down or weaken the legislation. therefore i was happy to vote in favour of the environment committee’s report on the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy. i believe this report upholds the integrity of the eu nature directives. the biodiversity of wales is far too precious to the people of wales to be risked.
in writing. ‒ the eu has always promoted higher levels of environmental protections across europe that member states would have been unable to provide on their own. part of the drive towards sustainability must run through guaranteeing the protection of our natural habitats both within member states and across borders. the natural environment is part of our rich cultural heritage which is of concern to me as a member of the committee on culture. as a representative for the north west of england i represent vast areas of national parks, sites of special scientific interest (sssi) and areas of outstanding natural beauty (aonbs). i also work very closely with environmental organisations who i know will be pleased with our work on the strategy. labour meps are committed to protecting the eu nature directives and will work to ensure that the fitness check is not used as an excuse to open up the birds and habitats directives in order to water down or weaken the legislation. this is why i voted in favour of the environment committee’s report on the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, another strasbourg, another debate about the migration and refugee crisis, another season beckons. as we look forward to spring, usually a season for optimism, it now becomes a season for concern. as the snow melts, as the mediterranean becomes passable and as the crisis reaches an epic scale, are we really ready to find solutions that work? some suggest letting everyone in from every country; others suggest the eu take over all border management; others again suggest sealing all borders and turning europe into a fortress. we need to get away from this debate of polarisation and get to work on tackling the problems. i know that mr verhofstadt has warned the media that he is about to bring up comments made by a member of my group. let me be quite clear: we will look into those comments and we will discuss it with my group with due process this afternoon. but i am disappointed at this trying to put politics above trying to solve this crisis. my group has been consistent in our approach to this crisis since it began. we do not have months or years to rewrite the rule book; we have only a few weeks to help those in need and to regain the confidence of our citizens. compassion can only be delivered when our rules are firm, fair and clear. schengen rules say that the external border of the eu should be protected. if member states cannot manage their borders, then we should offer them help through frontex, but we should not force help on democratically—elected governments. let us be clear: if you cannot play by the rules that you sign up to under dublin and schengen, do not be surprised if others want you out of the game. the rules only work if non-eu countries live up to their agreements too. what can we do to make sure that turkey, already struggling to cope with refugees from syria, is not merely seen as a transit country? what about countries such as pakistan that have signed readmission agreements but are slow to take back their citizens? it is time to get tough with these countries to live up to their responsibilities. the dublin regulation is clear that, in most cases, the first safe country is where people apply for asylum, but dublin has failed, because one leader opened her country to everyone, regardless of whether they were fleeing persecution or simply seeking a better life. it has failed because the first countries that refugees and migrants arrive at are unable to cope. dublin does not need to be completely rewritten; it needs changes to make it work better and to make sure refugees remain in the countries offering them asylum. in order to stabilise the situation in the short term and focus help on genuine refugees, let us agree which countries can take refugees and how many, not impose it upon them. let those countries that cannot take refugees help with money, equipment, boats and personnel to assist in border protection, processing and returns. but they should not simply wash their hands of the problem and expect others to pick up the bill. as the mediterranean becomes a route for traffickers again this summer, let us not abandon italy and malta to fend for themselves. in the eu we are never short of grand plans and great schemes, but now we need pragmatism and action: action to deliver resources; action to implement legislation; action to generate political will. so let us not seek to completely rewrite the rules. let us implement the rules we already have. let us cooperate to stabilise the crisis and let us focus on helping those genuinely in need, genuinely fleeing persecution or war, in the short, the medium and the long term. (applause)
madam president, my message is a simple one in a very complex situation: rules must be applied and implementation of those rules must be a priority. current systems have been paralysed through inaction, unwillingness and ad hoc decision-making, and it is time for the eu to show our voters, and those seeking to come to the eu, that ours is a fair, but firm, system. we can only gain control if we start applying the rules on the basic principles we have long advocated. if we look for magic solutions which take years to implement, the situation will only further spiral out of control. we must fingerprint all those arriving; this cannot be optional, as it appears at the moment, but a compulsory requirement for anyone seeking to stay in europe. member states must come together to guard their external borders, and if a member state cannot, or is unwilling to do this, then it must accept help from frontex. then we must return those who do not qualify for asylum. we must remove the administrative and practical obstacles which currently produce a pitifully low rate of returns. member states need to stop pushing off the problem and understand that their contributions as well as assets are needed. even though it needs review, dublin must maintain its core principles and relocation should be the second-stage process. if countries cannot control the external border or its internal border or provide humane facilities and decent treatment, then participation in schengen must be reviewed, and i believe that we have most of the tools we need. all we need now is for them to be used and enforced with courage and determination. may i just refer to the remarks of mr verhofstadt a few minutes ago? mr verhofstadt, really, you know, you must not be hypocritical. you can condemn another group and its leadership in relation to the remarks or behaviour of a member, but you should not do so until you also condemn the behaviour of one of your own members in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), when the epp vice-chair was not only abused but also insulted at a meeting recently. mr verhofstadt, put your own house in order before you start lecturing others about theirs.
madam president, i think we can all agree that the migration crisis last year was probably the single biggest catastrophe to hit the european union in its history. in fact, i would go as far as to say that it has put the very existence of this project in jeopardy. what is amazing is that the eu’s own actions helped cause the problem in the first place. when chancellor merkel and the swedish government committed the equivalent of cultural suicide and invited everyone who had a syrian passport to come to the continent, it was obvious to all of us what was going to happen. people would attempt to come in their droves, people would die in the seas, there would be migrant camps overflowing, member state would be pitted against member state, the schengen agreement would collapse, and it would be a golden opportunity for the islamic fundamentalists to bring carnage to our continent. it was also obvious that there would need to be u—turns, as we have seen performed in the past couple of months by both the german and the swedish governments. now we are facing an even bigger crisis. the numbers coming this year to europe will no doubt dwarf those of last year. we are facing a summer where the movement of people from the middle east and north africa will no doubt reach biblical proportions. what is the european union offering to solve this problem? the answer is more of the same: more concessions, more eu, more money, more misery, not only for the migrants but for many of its own citizens. we have to put a stop to this madness, and the answer is not making the same mistakes over and over again: it is restoring proper border controls, just as the australians have done for the past five years. however, for the uk to achieve this goal, we must vote to leave this organisation in the up-and-coming referendum. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– yes, i think that when angela merkel said that germany would accept everyone who could prove that they were syrian, a huge number of people came, and that is why fake syrian passports are now on sale on the turkish black market for eur 500 a go. that is why one in three people who turn up and say they are syrian in germany turn out to have fake passports. what you are doing is putting european citizens’ lives at risk. in fact, you saw what happened in cologne recently and i am telling you now that is a taster of what is to come across our continent.
mr president, i am also speaking in the context of the syria donors’ conference going on this week. the 2015 appeal for the syria crisis was less than 60% funded by january of this year, and that has had real repercussions both for the amount of food available in the camps and in the societies and countries surrounding syria in the region where less than 50% of the children are currently receiving education. so do the council and the commission believe that all member states are making adequate contributions to support the work of the un in the region? people have referred to people coming without documentation. well, in countries in conflict, documentation disappears, and one of the other issues arising is statelessness – not least for those children born en route. can we please hear what the proposals are from the commission and the council to actually deal with the issues of statelessness and prevention of it for vulnerable children in particular?
mr president, the disturbing revelation that more than 10 000 refugee children are missing across the eu is proof, if proof were needed, that europe is failing appallingly in this humanitarian crisis. the institutions of the eu have displayed nothing but continuous inhumanity by maintaining the ‘fortress europe’ approach to this crisis. after fleeing wars, battling the winter elements and making crossings via land or sea, refugees are faced with enforced detention. it is abundantly clear that the kneejerk reaction and policies adopted by several member states are failing miserably. the refugees that are fleeing barrel bombs and drone strikes should be met with open arms; instead they are detained, or pushed into the criminal claws of human traffickers and abusers. families are torn apart and childhood innocence is destroyed for ever. little children are trafficked for sex work or slave labour. organised criminal infrastructure is exploiting the refugee crisis and european policy is making its job easier. the provision of safe and legal routes for refugees and asylum seekers is the only way to prevent this dreadfulness.
mr president, we have seen arson attacks against migrants and refugee centres in some european countries, and we have seen attacks by migrants in cologne and other cities as well. why is it that the right is so quick to condemn brutal attacks by migrants, whilst the left condemns attacks on migrants, but neither side seems willing to recognise or even acknowledge both? should we not rather condemn all criminal violence, whoever the perpetrators, unequivocally and without question? in other words we should condemn the violence that we have seen from fascist protesters and condemn just as strongly the same violence done by so-called anti-fascists. and when we pause to reflect, let us remember that european union principles have spectacularly failed in what needed to be an incredible humanitarian response, but one done in the right way, when there are 2.5 million in turkish refugee camps and millions more in countries like lebanon and jordan too. every problem we see today was predictable, was predicted by us, and has been ignored by the commission.
blue-card question.– i have just heard a plea, almost a demand, that turkey do a lot more. is the mep who made those statements now advocating that we fast-track turkey’s eu membership, with all of the problems that turkish membership would bring to the economic union and european member states? that is a very bizarre statement to make, may i add.
blue-card question.– would you not agree with me that the situation with turkey is purely a sign of the weakness of the eu and its inability to deal with this migrant crisis? it is actually being played with – made a fool of – by turkey and having to resort to bribes to ask turkey to do what really should be the right thing to do anyway.
mr president, a european eu passport and access to the european lifestyle are now an aspiration for millions worldwide who are proving daily that they will go to enormous lengths to secure those objectives. now, this cannot and should not continue. chancellor merkel and germany have unleashed a migrant onslaught that is threatening member states’ and citizens’ security, social cohesion and economic prosperity. schengen and frontex are clearly unable to withstand or cope with this enormous migrant pressure. reactive european union policy-making is just not working: we are seeing that every time we are here and at our mini-plenaries. a radical rethink is now required, and it will be necessary to make some really hard choices. the immediate priority has got to be to remove the carrot. no stick is then required. stop the flow and the problems that come with it. 27 member states should not have to shoulder the consequences of another member state’s – in this case germany’s – ill-conceived and ill-thought-through ideology.
mr president, many members have referred to the europol report, which indicates that 10 000 unaccompanied minors now in the european union are being exploited. europol is probably the most respected agency in this house, and i know, having spoken to the colleagues involved, that its figure is just a snapshot. there has never been a refugee crisis in which the managed trafficking of minors has been so brutal and so systematic. and in the coming weeks and months you will see more horror stories of the kind that we are witnessing. i am not saying this for good effect, but for the benefit of all those who believe that we have the luxury of giving up: giving up on the commission’s plans; giving up for not having done anything; giving up on the member states which are doing less than other member states doing more. if we have that luxury, and if you think that we can do that, then just understand that in the coming weeks, minors will be coming from syria as genuine asylum-seekers. there is no ambiguity to their status under the geneva convention, whether the european union exists or not. therefore, we have work to do in parliament, on the borders agency, on dublin. so in our comfortable offices, let us get on with that work; let us work with the commission. yes, make that repeated boring speech. now to the dutch presidency. there are those member states which are not doing their work. they are not protecting the external borders or relocating. we know that, and so let as repeat the message to member states which are not doing their work or taking responsibility: do it now – take responsibility. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you, mr president: i never get a blue card – my speeches are always so boring – so thank you very much. i was in fact indicating, ms mussolini, that italy is one of those countries on the front line. italy and greece are on the front line; there are countries like sweden and germany taking more than anyone else; and then there are those member states not doing enough. but this is not a blame game. it is about italy having been on the front line and therefore maturing its policies. i agree with what you are saying, but i say to those colleagues who do not want to take more refugees for the european union that, had the european union not existed, these people would have come to what is called the continent of europe. people heard king abdullah this morning talking about how his country is now unable to cope. italy would have had mature policies because it was on the front line. so i agree that this is happening and that those member states which are not taking responsibility should work towards an organised solution.
mr president, the current migration crisis has illustrated that the 1951 geneva convention and the subsequent 67 protocols are ill-suited to the modern world of mass communication and global travel. mechanisms that were devised in the wake of the second world war were based on the premise that those facing genuine state persecution would be allowed refuge in a neighbouring safe country. they were not designed for people crossing the globe across countless safe states in order to reach countries offering the most generous welfare systems and asylum policies. neither was the convention designed with the idea that individuals could transfer their refugee status from one state to another, as we are seeing now in the case of many who have left safe refugee camps in turkey in order to reach europe and then claim asylum again. 2016 will see a new un secretary—general elected, probably from an eastern european state. speaking personally, i believe that the eu should take this opportunity to press for reform of the 1951 geneva convention to address these very valid concerns or else the convention will no longer be respected or applied.
madam president, listening to this debate, can i suggest, colleagues, to us all: we have got a problem. we need to be more precise in the language that we use. i hear the word ‘migrant’ used to describe people fleeing war and persecution. these are not migrants; these are genuine refugees, people to whom we can and must offer refuge. i have heard the word ‘migrant’ used to describe people from all parts of the world coming to europe in search of a better life. these are not migrants; these are economic migrants, and they are people who invariably have no lawful claim to residence here. finally, i have heard the word migrant applied to europeans who live or work in a european country not of their birth. these are not migrants; they are european citizens exercising the right of free movement, something they are perfectly entitled to do. colleagues, if we are not more precise in our language, not only are we confusing the public, but i suspect at times we confuse ourselves as well.
madam president, when at the end of last year the eu pledged to provide a facility of eur 3 billion to turkey to help them assist with the 2.75 million refugees that they have received from syria, it was hailed as a key tenet of the eu’s response to the refugee crisis. this facility was meant to start to provide grants and other financial support as of 1 january 2016, and it is appalling that here we are, more than a month later, and still eu member states are fighting over how much they will contribute to the facility. my country might have been quickly prepared to pay its share, but i remain deeply disappointed that the united kingdom has opted out from taking its share of refugees in the joint relocation scheme. initially it was said that only eur 0.5 billion would be provided from the eu’s own budget. the rest would be genuine new money from the eu member states. and yet to date, that figure has risen to eur 1 billion from the eu budget. we must make sure that it rises no more. president juncker was right when he said that these eur 3 billion are a question of credibility for the eu. and on a day when there are those in my own member state, sadly, who want the european union to fail that test of credibility, we have to make sure that it succeeds. as my political group has emphasised, whatever the crisis, our shared values must remain the same. and i call on all members here to go back to your governments and to get them to commit the money so the facility can offer the humanitarian development support that is so desperately needed.
madam president, the more things change, the more they stay the same. we continue to waffle on the migration issue, and while there is great frustration over the lack of progress, not enough of us are willing to admit that close cooperation with our neighbours is essential if we are ever going to bring the situation under control. turkey is, whether some like it or not, a key partner in the overall management of the migration crisis that is hitting us much closer to home, and turkey’s overall political relationship with the eu is simply not part of this debate. let us not forget that turkey has shown goodwill by providing care for over two million refugees who have already poured into the country. obviously, any funds given to turkey must be carefully monitored, but processing centres, shelter, food and education over there will go a long way to stemming the problem over here.
mr president, for once i am in agreement with some of you and happy to point towards the failure of the eu commission in its gender equality strategy. after all, the only thing it has produced is a staff working document; very useful indeed if you are caught short in a public convenience without toilet paper. but i have to ask, what have the numerous eu strategies, funding initiatives and quangos actually achieved? do i feel more empowered and safer than ever before? no, in fact i would argue the reverse is true. i am sure many of those women in cologne, sweden and elsewhere feel exactly the same. what did you think was going to happen when the eu opened the door to millions of people from countries and cultures where women are treated as second class citizens and lgbti people are treated even worse? the wilful cover-up at the facts surrounding cologne and elsewhere by politicians, the authorities and the press shows you that european politicians care more about political correctness than actually protecting the safety and rights of women. the eu is clearly trying to deny that this kind of violence even exists. what about trafficking? a uk government report says that free movement within the eu is extensively exploited by organised criminals to bring human trafficking victims to the uk. europol says free movement makes it more difficult to detect these operations. it is the perfect environment for the criminal gangs to act with impunity. the current eu gender strategy is, and will continue to be, an absolute failure. whilst the uk remains in the eu, women, lgbti people and the rest of society are less safe and less secure.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their unstinting work trying to persuade the commission to do the right thing: to publish a comprehensive and ambitious communication on a gender equality strategy, which is so urgently needed. we need a plan that is holistic and brave, a plan that tackles the many faces of gender inequality, and this plan must ensure that gender is mainstreamed into all aspects of european policy. for example, in recent months i have been working on anti-poverty policy, and the truth is that we will never be able to meet the eu’s anti-poverty targets by 2020 without striving for true gender equality. the economic crisis and austerity policies have disproportionately affected women. single women are much more likely to be in precarious employment and to struggle to heat their homes and put food on the table. so what we need is policy coherence from the european commission, revolving around one ambitious strategy to address the gender perspectives in all areas, including a much more social and gender-sensitive european semester. i look forward to seeing the commission take this action that we so urgently need.
madam president, just picking up from comrade regner’s beginning, she said people often ask: ‘what does the eu do for me?’ well, when i go home and i tell people that we were having a debate on a new commission strategy, you can often see that they are not immediately convinced that that is necessarily going to make a very big difference to their lives. when you go home and tell them that you are having a debate about the fact that actually the commission has not got a strategy, you can hardly blame them for looking a bit sceptical about whether we are all wasting our time here. that is a real shame, because women where i live and represent need help from us here and from you there, because they are not going to get it from our own government. the pay gap between men and women in my region under the tory government has now increased to gbp 5 500 a year. that is a very big gap, and the tories are not going to do anything about it. their recent changes to the tax and benefit systems have affected women three times worse than they have affected men, and the tories are not going to do anything about that. they are looking to us and to you to do something about that. so this non-strategy, which is weak on disability, pay and domestic violence, is really not good enough for us to do our jobs, and so i have to say to the commissioner: man up. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from arne gericke under rule 162(8))
madam president, speaking as a pharmacologist who has been involved in clinical trials, both commercial and academic, i know how important clinical trials are in pharmaceutical development. however, the whole process is fraught with difficulty, and some of the drugs we use today, such as aspirin, would be unlikely to get approval. regarding the track record of eu clinical trials legislation, in my experience the results to date have not been great. in the uk, the clinical trials directive of 2001 made life very difficult for those of us involved in clinical trials, so much so that in my own field of small-scale phase iv trials, research was virtually curtailed. the directive has since been replaced by the european clinical trial regulation, which will be fully implemented this year. will it be an improvement? i doubt it. regarding transparency, ukip strongly supports transparency in clinical trials. however, we believe that the uk parliament and not the eu should be exclusively in charge of regulating this process.
blue-card question.– mr pittella, you mentioned earlier that the portuguese and spanish governments were working towards european values, and yet youth unemployment there is closing up on 50%. is it not true that the eu policy of supporting bankers, rather than the ordinary working people and the youth of these countries, is the problem and not the solution?
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, when i first became an mep in 2005, it was around the time that the french and dutch had voted ‘no’ in their referenda on the european constitution. as we stood here in this parliament and considered the implications of those ‘no’ votes, i was shocked by the number of meps who simply wanted to ignore the results and push on with further european integration. but perhaps the most shocking moment for me was when the then leader of the ppe group stood up and said: ‘nothing must be allowed to get in the way of the european project. nothing must be allowed to get in the way of european political integration. nothing must be allowed to get in the way of european economic integration.’ as a british mep, the belief in the european project, where the eventual goal was to build a united states of europe or a federal republic of europe, was news to me. there and then, i realised that there was a massive gap in the perception between many in eu institutions who believe in this european project, and the people of britain, many of whom tell me that they believe that they voted to stay in a common market. reading more about the history of the eu, i realised that the political dimension of the eu has been played down by politicians of all parties in the uk for the last 40 years. it is still being played down. in my first few weeks here in parliament i was approached by a british mep who asked me to join a cross-party group – a cross-party federal group – to support the european project. when i asked him: have you told your voters this? i found out he was saying one thing here and a different thing in his constituency. so unless this gap in perceptions is resolved, the uk will continue to have an ambiguous relationship with the eu. this is why david cameron was absolutely right to call this referendum to give the british people a say, because we should never be afraid to ask the people what they want and then to stick by the outcome. a large number of voters i speak to say that they do not yet know how to vote and that they will wait to see the details of the deal. rather like going to a shop and someone promising you a great deal in a couple of weeks and asking you to commit now: they want to read the small print. donald tusk’s letter to the european council and his draft proposals are a good place to start on the four areas set out by the british prime minister: mutual respect between euro area and non-euro area countries; the eu becoming more competitive by opening the single market, cutting red tape and increasing global trade; ever closer union not applying to all countries, with national parliaments playing a larger role; and freedom of movement to work, and not to claim, and those people who move should only get something out of the system once they have put something in. it is hard to see how these are just british questions. these are matters that should benefit all european union countries. for the next few weeks we will see a lot of travel, a lot of papers being read, a lot of persuading being done. and as the council seeks a final deal, and once a deal is done, the real debate begins. because for this referendum to be meaningful, it needs a full, frank and honest debate, with both sides being clear what remaining in the eu means and what leaving the eu could mean for britain and for the eu. those of you who want to build your project of a united states of europe, come to britain and tell the british people if that is what you believe. do not hide your views until after the referendum. mr verhofstadt is an example, as you say. but at the end of the day it does not matter what we say, it does not matter what donald tusk or david cameron says, it does not matter what politicians on both sides of this debate may say, it does not matter what we say in the european parliament or what they say in the westminster parliament. at the end of the day, it is the british people who will have their say. it is time for the british people to have their say for the first time in 40 years. please, on all sides of this house, respect that. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr kamall, thank you for taking my question. you are always a good sport. mr kamall, if you want a fair british immigration policy, can you have that within the eu?
blue-card answer. – well, mr coburn, thank you very much. i must say i admire your abilities to predict my speech. in future i might actually ask you to write some of the speech. or when i am struggling for words i can ring you up and say: what do you think will be in my speech tomorrow? but in this case, you asked a very fair question, and it is something that has to be put to the british people. if you want immigration policy – what you call a fair immigration policy – whereby everyone outside the uk is treated equally, whether they are from austria or australia, croatia or the caribbean, italy or india, you cannot achieve that by remaining in the eu. you have to be honest, but you have to make that clear to the british people. what i do not like, when your party talks about immigration, is trying to imitate the bnp and be anti-immigration.
blue-card question.– you referred to bending the knee to the city of london when it comes to concessions to the uk negotiations. would you, in your opinion, rather see the eu and the uk go separate ways than for the eu to acknowledge the concerns of the uk in any way? the uk, by the way, is not just the city of london; it is the whole country, as shown by the fact that ukip won the european elections.
blue-card question.– thank you very much for taking the question. what donald tusk, the president of the council, has described as the uk’s emergency brake on benefits requires a majority in the european parliament. will you and your group be voting for the emergency brake on benefits?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, thank you. they are slightly over enthusiastic. it was not supposed to be like this, was it? mr cameron’s renegotiation began with really big intentions: treaty change – blue cards going up already, this is going to be fun! – he was going to control the free movement of people, he was going to achieve a fundamental change, not just in britain’s relationship with the european union, but he was going to reform the eu itself. what we got was a letter from mr tusk in which there is no treaty change, no powers returned to the united kingdom and no control over our borders at all. in fact, it was hardly worth the wait. it is really rather pathetic. but there is one more chance for the prime minister, because he goes to the european summit in a couple of weeks’ time. like oliver twist, he will parade in front of the other leaders and say, ‘please can we have some more concessions?’ i find it rather humiliating that a british prime minister has to do this, but i am certain of one thing: he will not get another thing. just look at the substance of this: we have an emergency brake on migrant benefits. wow! it was supposed to be a total ban on migrant benefits for up to four years, so it is hardly an emergency brake. it is more of a handbrake turn. also, the prime minister is saying we have got a red card. isn’t that wonderful! well, what that means is that a majority of parliaments in the european union can say to mr juncker that they do not want one of his directives. is that a cause for celebration? if 15 parliaments could not stop a piece of law, we would be living in a communist dictatorship. what i have gone through here are the good bits, but the most bizarre thing is that mr cameron said that with this deal, he would now vote for britain to join the european union. so let us have a little think about that. if the question in june is: ‘should we join the european union?’ we would have to tell the british people: ‘you must surrender the control and sovereignty of your parliament and have 75% of your laws made somewhere else. your supreme court will not be supreme. you will be overruled by a court in luxembourg made up of people who are not even judges. you will have to give up your fishing grounds, including in some places 200 miles of the north sea, and you must cut your links with the commonwealth and the wider world because you are no longer fit to negotiate your own global trade deals. oh, and by the way, for all of this you will be paying gbp 55 million a day as a membership fee.’ would the british people vote for that? not a snowball’s chance in hades. all we have to do is recognise that, whilst the politicians and the big banks and the big businesses will in this referendum defend their own vested self-interests, it is people power that will win this referendum. after we have won this referendum, i hope that it will win in many other countries in europe too. (applause from certain quarters)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– i wanted to have the opportunity to say that as a british member here i am embarrassed and ashamed by the rude and disrespectful behaviour by the ukip members here. i would like to ask mr farage if, during the forthcoming campaign, he will do anything to control the behaviour of his members. (the president interrupted the speaker)i hope i can have a few more seconds. i want to say that i am embarrassed and ashamed by the behaviour of ukip members here today and their disrespect for other members, which ironically i find to be extremely un-british. i would like to ask mr farage whether he is going to attempt to control his members and prevent them from this sort of intimidation both inside the chamber and, more widely, on social media during this campaign. (applause)
blue-card answer.– i do not know if you have a television in your house or not, but if you do, you might have watched prime minister’s questions and you might have seen that actually in elected assemblies all over the world there is vigorous, lively debate, or sometimes even humour too. how about that? the most vociferous members i have known in this parliament since i have been here are our president, when he led the socialist group for many years, and indeed mr verhofstadt, who leads the liberal group. they have very often shouted or mocked things that i have said. frankly, as an elected representative, i am big enough and ugly enough to take it, and so should you be. (applause from the efdd group)
blue-card question.– ms le pen, do you think that the people sitting in calais trying to get to great britain are speaking with their feet about what they think of the european economy and that if they want a brighter future – and i do not blame them – they want to get to britain, where the future is brighter, against the european union, which is falling to bits?
mr president, after the flurry of activity yesterday over the prime minister’s deal, many in my constituency are asking: what was it all about? having read the draft agreement, we see that the renegotiation of our relationship with the eu amounts to little more than a choreographed talks process, a faux battle, a smoke-and-mirrors charade that has resulted in little more than the status quo: i am saddened to say, a failure of our prime minister to stand up for our united kingdom. treaty change and retaking control over our laws has disappeared, and a promise to return control over our borders has been watered down to a benefit curb that has to be agreed by brussels. the ever-present issue of the cost of membership has not even been addressed – a cost estimated by the office for budget responsibility to rise by a further eur 3 billion in 2020. i am delighted that the democratic process will now take control. i look forward to a frank and honest debate over our relationship with the european union. (applause)
mr president, so the proposals for british changes are on the table. the negotiations can start and in the uk the referendum campaign begins in earnest. the anti-europeans and nationalists in britain depict the uk as isolated in europe, constantly bossed around by brussels. they say britain is too small to take a leading role in the eu and that we are constantly pushed around, and then they claim that outside the eu we would be a world leader, taking on the rest of the world. this is a complete contradiction. we know that britain can only play a bigger role in the world by playing a bigger role in the eu. britain has always been an influential member of the european union. in the 1980s the uk led the creation of the single market, which has increased competitiveness across the eu and increased british-eu trade by 55%. only in the eu can we get the best deal for british consumers, driving down prices and allowing british businesses to grow and prosper with our neighbours. being part of the eu is better for britain under all circumstances: better for our prosperity, our security and our environment. but the renegotiation should not be only about getting a better deal for the uk but for all the countries in the eu. together we will all be stronger, creating opportunity, peace and prosperity for the future generations of this great continent. the people i meet up and down my country want to know that the future for their children and grandchildren will be bright, prosperous and stable. they want europe to be the engine of science and technology and innovation, driving the world to a cleaner and more sustainable future. only together with the eu can we secure this future. the best deal for the british public is a strong britain in a strong european union. as the most internationalist and outward-facing party, the lib dems are committed to keeping britain a full member of the eu because we are focused on the bigger issues at stake: the reason why britain and europe are stronger, safer and more prosperous together.
no, i think we have had enough blue cards already today.
mr president, sinn féin wants to see the creation of a social europe, a europe with democracy at its core and a europe that is closer to citizens. it is clear that the right-wing agenda of these institutions, and of several eu leaders, is being put before the needs of citizens. the failed policies of deregulation, austerity, discrimination and scapegoating are at the heart of the eu reform agenda heading into february’s council. mr cameron and mr tusk’s vision for europe is that of a race to the bottom and of disregard for the concept of human rights and equality. along with the attacks on workers’ rights and migrant rights contained in these proposals, the agenda of the british government is to undermine human rights, as evident in its proposed repeal of the human rights act which gives effect to the european convention of human rights. brexit and the repeal of the human rights act have implications for ireland and for the good friday agreement, and there is no mention of that. so whilst the eu is in need of radical reform, it is clear that these proposals are pushing the eu reform in the wrong direction. in most international agreements, disputes or otherwise, it is ‘all about the economy, stupid’. in the case of brexit, it is ‘all about human rights, stupid’. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– i am grateful to my irish colleague for giving way. coming from scotland, the diversity of the united kingdom is of course very important, and we have very different domestic politics. we have elections in the north of ireland, scotland and wales in may. would you agree with me that it is a democratic outrage for the vote to be held in june? that would be disrespectful to northern irish, scottish and welsh democracy. further, given that we have different attitudes to the european union within scotland, the north of ireland and wales, would you agree with me that it would be a democratic outrage for those countries to be taken out of the eu against our democratic will?
blue-card answer.– thank you for that question. i think i would absolutely concur with what you are saying with regard to ireland’s place being in europe, just as you are saying that scotland’s place is in europe. we hope that an english vote on this does not result in the north of ireland being taken out of the eu. therefore we would argue that for the north of ireland – and perhaps you are saying the same for scotland – there should be a separate referendum. it should be calculated and counted separately and that should be respected.
mr president, i represent wales, and eu membership has brought positive economic, social and cultural benefits. i also believe that the eu has benefited from having wales as a member. there is a great deal about the eu that i would like to change, but we can only do that by working with our european partners to improve policy and make the eu more effective. we are far better off working for change within than shouting from the sidelines. the uk government wants more subsidiarity; well, so do i. and that is why the proposed changes to be discussed in council must be fully considered too in terms of their impact on the devolved governments of the uk. there must be a proper debate involving those governments, and i regret that the uk government has not done that to date. it is a matter of democracy and fairness. my party, plaid cymru, is committed to remaining in the eu, and i believe that the majority of the people of wales want that too. and if wales votes to remain in, we should not be dragged out against our democratic will. that is why we have called for a mandate to leave only if the four constituent parts of the uk agree to leave. i want to engage people in an open, honest, fact-based and mature debate about this, because it is a decision that will affect many generations to come. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you for the question. i believe in making a much more democratic europe. that is why i think that there are other regional and national levels of government and small nations that are currently excluded from the decision—making process, and if we had a stronger voice for that level of government it would encourage more democratic participation and build a much better and stronger europe for the future.
mr president, i wanted to start by talking a little about subsidiarity. we are going to hear a lot about that over the next few weeks in the uk, and of course it is about making decisions at the lowest appropriate level. that can be a parish, it can be global and it can be the european union. in terms of the refugee situation, there we have a clear need for cooperation and coordination beyond an intergovernmental approach and for that cooperation to be based on a clear commitment to fundamental rights and international obligations. it is a duty of this parliament to remind the council of those values. that clear need for international cooperation on this and many other issues is one of the reasons why my party will support a ‘remain’ position in the referendum, despite the desire for change that we have about the european union. i wanted to make that clear to the house.
mr president, it is my view that the uk proposals, which we now have, form the basis of a good deal, and a deal which includes all four of my prime minister’s major issues of concern. we can confidently put that in due course to the british people. this is never going to please those who have always wanted to leave the eu regardless, nor will it be music to the ears of euro-federalists. some of the details still need to be worked out and there are still matters that require further discussion. but if we can finalise this work in the upcoming european council, then we will have a deal that i would welcome. we must emphasise that any good deal must also just be the start of the wider long-term reforms for the whole continent. the reforms must not just be for the benefit of the uk but for the prosperity and the security of the whole eu, and indeed for future generations as well.
mr president, it is a time of crisis for our continent. britain must be seen to be strongly committed to the european union and working in partnership with our european neighbours to achieve the best for our continent as a whole, not seeking to negotiate a special deal based on self-interest. yesterday we saw what the european union is really about when members of this parliament voted overwhelmingly against fracking operations and to apply the precautionary principle to gmo approvals. we also voted to oppose any revision of the nature directives, which protect some of the uk’s best-loved sites and areas of natural beauty. the environment knows no borders and eu cooperation is essential to protecting our shared heritage. the european union is a beacon to the rest of the world on standards of environmental protection, animal welfare and employment rights. these things are not red tape, challenging competitiveness, but symbols of living in a civilised society. this is what makes me proud to be a european, and this is what convinces me and my party that we will campaign wholeheartedly for the uk to remain a member of the european union.
mr president, well it is ‘camsham’, and labour, along with the greens and the remaining lib dems, will keep the white flag flying. the british public knows that this was a chamberlain moment, and so do the british newspapers. let me read to you what the british media are saying. the sun: ‘who do you think you are kidding, mr. cameron?’; the daily mail: ‘footling, pedantic and almost ineffective’; the express: ‘a joke’; the mirror: ‘sophistry and spin’. voters are very well informed and they read newspapers; the media matters. there is nothing on agriculture, fishing, trade and environmental policies. now it is very clear: there is no change, no treaty change and no repatriation of british sovereignty. britain will keep paying the billions into the eu and, crucially, our borders remain open to migrants and terrorists. the truth is cameron got pretty much what he asked for: absolutely nothing. it means nothing, and this is what the british people will do (tears up a piece of paper) and go for brexit.
mr president, the proposed solution to the british question contains elements which are significant concessions by the other member states, and also some that are symbolic or trivial. labour would not have gone down the route chosen by mr cameron, but we recognise its significance. we also share the concerns that many colleagues have expressed about these significant concessions that have been given, especially perhaps those that affect the welfare rights of employed, tax-paying european citizens working in britain. but we also note that mr cameron has not managed – or even, i think, attempted, perhaps thanks to our pressure – to weaken the social chapter of the treaty that enshrines workplace rights. there are other things that he has not managed to do, and we are glad of that. but whatever one’s view of the package that is there, we have to bear in mind that there is a much bigger question at stake: the very membership of britain in the european union and the threat of the break—up of the european union. that has to be our overriding consideration. whether or not mr cameron’s package helps secure the result necessary in this referendum in all our interests: that has to be our overriding consideration. if the concessions help – and they will help – win that battle, then that is something we all have to take into account. it is of an overriding importance. there is far too much at stake for us to quibble or to try to oppose this package. even if many colleagues are understandably not entirely happy with it, i would urge you nonetheless to accept it. (applause)
mr president, in the tusk letter there are some useful things, some trivial things, and some things we do not particularly like. but the referendum is not a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to cameron’s deal, but the much bigger question of whether the uk should leave or remain in the eu. i believe, and my party believes, that remaining in the eu is in the best interest of britain’s economy and security: it is good for jobs, workplace rights and the environment. we have to face our future challenges not through isolation but through cooperation. the alternative, which the eurosceptics pedal, is for the uk to walk away, have no say but still have to pay. to the scottish nationalists: this is not about when the referendum will be, but about the future of scotland, being part of the eu through the uk, and the benefits we gain for jobs and working people in scotland. i want the uk to remain part of the eu family for our long-term future as a country and our long-term prosperity as a nation.
mr president, i would like to thank colleagues here for their support for my country remaining in the eu. i hope an agreement is reached in february. only through reaching that agreement can we finally get on to the referendum campaign and fight for britain to remain in the eu. citizens in the uk already benefit from our membership of the eu. they benefit from jobs, from rights in those jobs – like the right to paid holiday – from protection of our environment, tackling tax avoidance, dealing with climate change and protecting our security. our future also lies in our membership of the eu: a future in innovation, in development and in research, and a future economy. so please get that agreement at the council in february and let us take the campaign on to keep britain at the heart of, and stronger in, the eu.
in writing. ‒ volumes of imported agricultural products from moldova have increased significantly in the past several years. the commission wants to impose the safeguard clause and anti-circumvention mechanism as part of the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with moldova, to protect the market share of eu agricultural producers from moldovan products. these measures would reapply the world trade organisation’s most favoured nation (mfn) tariffs on moldovan products entering the eu that cause or threaten to cause ‘serious injury’ to eu industry or that breach ‘rules of origin’ requirements. the proposal is in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with moldova, to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. the vote was for a technical matter confirming a power of the commission under an agreement that has been approved by the european parliament. because the commission’s power in that regard would reapply wto rules, ukip voted to abstain.
in writing. – volumes of imported agricultural products from moldova have increased significantly in the past several years. the commission wants to impose the safeguard clause and anti-circumvention mechanism as part of the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with moldova, to protect the market share of eu agricultural producers from moldovan products. these measures would reapply the world trade organisation’s most favoured nation (mfn) tariffs on moldovan products entering the eu that cause or threaten to cause ‘serious injury’ to eu industry, or that breach ‘rules of origin’ requirements. the proposal is in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with moldova to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. the vote was for a technical matter confirming a power of the commission under an agreement that has been approved by the european parliament. because the commission’s power in that regard would reapply wto rules, we voted to abstain.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. this was a technical file that amends a commission proposal to harmonise the wording of a regulation with the eu-moldova association agreement. the eu-moldova association agreement includes an anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from moldova exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. a regulation of the parliament and council is necessary to put in place in the eu’s internal legislation the necessary instrument to be able to apply the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ if the situation were the uk signing or updating such an agreement with moldova to bring british trade into line with world trade organisation rules, then i would vote in favour. however, i do not believe that the european union should be the place for such matters to be decided as a consequence of my view that the united kingdom should not be a part of it. consequently, i felt that it was appropriate to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ volumes of imported agricultural products from moldova have increased significantly in the past several years. the commission wants to impose the safeguard clause and anti-circumvention mechanism as part of the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with moldova, to protect the market share of eu agricultural producers from moldovan products. these measures would reapply the world trade organisation’s most favoured nation (mfn) tariffs on moldovan products entering the eu that cause or threaten to cause ‘serious injury’ to eu industry, or that breach ‘rules of origin’ requirements. the proposal is in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with moldova to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. the vote was for a technical matter confirming a power of the commission under an agreement that has been approved by the european parliament. because the commission’s power in that regard would reapply wto rules, we voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ volumes of imported agricultural products from moldova have increased significantly in the past several years. the commission wants to impose the safeguard clause and anti-circumvention mechanism as part of the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with moldova, to protect the market share of eu agricultural producers from moldovan products. these measures would reapply the world trade organisation’s most favoured nation (mfn) tariffs on moldovan products entering the eu that cause or threaten to cause ‘serious injury’ to eu industry, or that breach ‘rules of origin’ requirements. the proposal is in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with moldova to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. the vote was for a technical matter confirming a power of the commission under an agreement that has been approved by the european parliament. because the commission’s power in that regard would reapply wto rules, we voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ volumes of imported agricultural products from moldova have increased significantly in the past several years. the commission wants to impose the safeguard clause and anti-circumvention mechanism as part of the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with moldova, to protect the market share of eu agricultural producers from moldovan products. these measures would reapply the world trade organisation’s most favoured nation (mfn) tariffs on moldovan products entering the eu that cause or threaten to cause ‘serious injury’ to eu industry, or that breach ‘rules of origin’ requirements. the proposal is in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with moldova to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. the vote was for a technical matter confirming a power of the commission under an agreement that has been approved by the european parliament. because the commission’s power in that regard would reapply wto rules, we voted to abstain.
in writing. – volumes of imported agricultural products from moldova have increased significantly in the past several years. the commission wants to impose the safeguard clause and anti-circumvention mechanism as part of the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with moldova, to protect the market share of eu agricultural producers from moldovan products. these measures would reapply the world trade organisation’s most favoured nation (mfn) tariffs on moldovan products entering the eu that cause or threaten to cause ‘serious injury’ to eu industry, or that breach ‘rules of origin’ requirements. the proposal is in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with moldova to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. the vote was for a technical matter confirming a power of the commission under an agreement that has been approved by the european parliament. because the commission’s power in that regard would reapply wto rules, we voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i support this temporary suspension of tariff preferences under the eu-moldova association agreement. it is important that tariff preferences under an association agreement only benefit the country with which the eu signed the deal. the association agreement with moldova signed in june 2014 includes an anti-circumvention mechanism designed to be used when necessary, and i welcome its implementation in this case to ensure moldovan farmers continue to benefit from the free trade agreement signed with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which includes a bilateral safeguard clause to accompany the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) embedded in the association agreement with moldova. safeguard clauses are legal instruments to protect european industry by providing a mechanism to take action against a surge in imports which distort the eu market due to the reduction or elimination of tariffs under a preferential trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with moldova, like the majority of our trade agreements, includes a bilateral safeguard clause. by this instrument preferences can be temporarily suspended in case their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase of imports causing economic damage to the domestic industry of the importing party (i.e. it is possible to either suspend the further tariff liberalization or reintroduce the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate). furthermore, this agreement also includes a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility to reintroduce the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from moldova exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is needed to put in place in the eu’s internal legislation the necessary instrument to be able to apply the bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it is simply incorporation in eu law of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism foreseen in the eu-moldova association agreement.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with moldova, like the majority of our trade agreements, includes a bilateral safeguard clause. by this instrument preferences can be temporarily suspended in case their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase of imports causing economic damage to the domestic industry of the importing party (i.e. it is possible to either suspend the further tariff liberalization or reintroduce the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate). furthermore, this agreement also includes a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility to reintroduce the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from moldova exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is needed to put in place in the eu’s internal legislation the necessary instrument to be able to apply the bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ volumes of imported agricultural products from moldova have increased significantly in the past several years. the commission wants to impose the safeguard clause and anti-circumvention mechanism as part of the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with moldova, to protect the market share of eu agricultural producers from moldovan products. these measures would reapply the world trade organisation’s most favoured nation (mfn) tariffs on moldovan products entering the eu that cause or threaten to cause ‘serious injury’ to eu industry, or that breach ‘rules of origin’ requirements. the proposal is in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with moldova to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. the vote was for a technical matter confirming a power of the commission under an agreement that has been approved by the european parliament. because the commission’s power in that regard would reapply wto rules, we voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i support the association agreement between moldova and the eu, because it is a clear signal that moldova wants to move towards europe and the eu is willing to help it along the way. the increase of 20% in moldovan exports to the union and even 30% in agricultural products is proof that the established eu-moldova free trade area is working and fulfilling its objective. i support the amendment proposed today, however, because we need to prevent any excesses in eu law. it only strengthens the whole structure of the association.
in writing. ‒ volumes of imported agricultural products from moldova have increased significantly in the past several years. the commission wants to impose the safeguard clause and anti-circumvention mechanism as part of the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with moldova, to protect the market share of eu agricultural producers from moldovan products. these measures would reapply the world trade organisation’s most favoured nation (mfn) tariffs on moldovan products entering the eu that cause or threaten to cause ‘serious injury’ to eu industry, or that breach ‘rules of origin’ requirements. the proposal is in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with moldova to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. the vote was for a technical matter confirming a power of the commission under an agreement that has been approved by the european parliament. because the commission’s power in that regard would reapply wto rules, we voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ volumes of imported agricultural products from moldova have increased significantly in the past several years. the commission wants to impose the safeguard clause and anti-circumvention mechanism as part of the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with moldova, to protect the market share of eu agricultural producers from moldovan products. these measures would reapply the world trade organisation’s most favoured nation (mfn) tariffs on moldovan products entering the eu that cause or threaten to cause ‘serious injury’ to eu industry, or that breach ‘rules of origin’ requirements. the proposal is in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with moldova to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014.
in writing. ‒ this file means that the safeguard clause, as well as the anti-circumvention mechanism which was foreseen in the eu-moldova association agreement, is incorporated into eu law. it will mean that no fundamentally new conditions which were not already in the agreement can be introduced during the legislative procedure. although i do not suspect that it would be very likely to be exploited, safeguards are always important and should be applied to all trade agreements in order to protect european industries. hence i am glad to see that the association agreement also includes an anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. safeguard clauses are standard mechanisms in ftas. they are an essential means of protecting european industry by providing a mechanism to take action against a surge of imports which distort the eu market due to the reduction or elimination of tariffs under a preferential trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposed regulation, which will help to ensure that products that enter the eu benefit only the country concerned by the relevant trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ the anti-circumvention mechanism would reapply wto rules to products exported from georgia to the eu that are believed to violate ‘rules of origin’ requirements, in accordance with the eu's association agreement with georgia to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. using the same justification as for the moldova vote, ukip abstained.
in writing. – the anti-circumvention mechanism would reapply wto rules to products exported from georgia to the eu that are believed to violate ‘rules of origin’ requirements, in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with georgia to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. using the same justification as for the moldova vote, we abstained.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report. this was a technical file that amends a commission proposal to harmonise the wording of a regulation with the eu-georgia association agreement. the eu-georgia association agreement includes an anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from georgia exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. a regulation of the parliament and council is necessary to put in place in the eu’s internal legislation the necessary instrument to be able to apply the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ if the situation were the uk signing or updating such an agreement with georgia to bring british trade into line with world trade organisation rules, then i would vote in favour. however, i do not believe that the european union should be the place for such matters to be decided as a consequence of my view that the united kingdom should not be a part of it. consequently, i felt that it was appropriate to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the anti-circumvention mechanism would reapply wto rules to products exported from georgia to the eu that are believed to violate ‘rules of origin’ requirements, in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with georgia to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. using the same justification as for the moldova vote, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the anti-circumvention mechanism would reapply wto rules to products exported from georgia to the eu that are believed to violate ‘rules of origin’ requirements, in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with georgia to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. using the same justification as for the moldova vote, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the anti-circumvention mechanism would reapply wto rules to products exported from georgia to the eu that are believed to violate ‘rules of origin’ requirements, in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with georgia to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. using the same justification as for the moldova vote, we abstained.
in writing. – the anti-circumvention mechanism would reapply wto rules to products exported from georgia to the eu that are believed to violate ‘rules of origin’ requirements, in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with georgia to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. using the same justification as for the moldova vote, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support this temporary suspension of tariff preferences under the eu-georgia association agreement. it is important that tariff preferences under an association agreement only benefit the country with which the eu signed the deal. the association agreement with georgia signed in june 2014 includes an anti-circumvention mechanism designed to be used when necessary, and i welcome its implementation in this case to ensure georgian farmers continue to benefit from the free trade agreement signed with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which introduces an anti-circumvention mechanism to accompany the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) which is embedded in the association agreement with georgia. this is for cases where the union suspects imports (particularly agricultural imports) are being circumvented through georgia to enter the eu market under the preferential agreement, but in fact originate in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. the eu-georgia association agreement includes a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from georgia exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is necessary to put in place in the eu’s internal legislation the necessary instrument to be able to apply the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it is simply incorporation into eu law of the anti-circumvention mechanism foreseen in the eu-georgia association agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. the eu-georgia association agreement includes a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from georgia exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is necessary to put in place in the eu’s internal legislation the necessary instrument to be able to apply the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the anti-circumvention mechanism would reapply wto rules to products exported from georgia to the eu that are believed to violate ‘rules of origin’ requirements, in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with georgia to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. using the same justification as for the moldova vote, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu association agreement with georgia. in my view, this is a clear signal that georgia wants to move towards europe and that the eu is willing to help it in a real way along the way. the increase in georgian exports to the union is evidence that the established free trade area between georgia and the union is indeed functioning and fulfilling its objective. i support the amendments tabled today because we need to prevent any excesses in eu law. but with an institute like this, we're only going to strengthen the whole structure of the association.
in writing. ‒ the anti-circumvention mechanism would reapply wto rules to products exported from georgia to the eu that are believed to violate ‘rules of origin’ requirements, in accordance with the eu's association agreement with georgia to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. using the same justification as for the moldova vote, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the anti-circumvention mechanism would reapply wto rules to products exported from georgia to the eu that are believed to violate ‘rules of origin’ requirements, in accordance with the eu’s association agreement with georgia to which the european parliament gave its consent in 2014. using the same justification as for the moldova vote, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ just as with the mechanism concerning anti-circumvention in the eu-moldova association agreement, this mechanism seeks to do a similar thing: to introduce mfn customs duty rate when imports of certain goods – primarily agricultural goods – from georgia out-strip the threshold that is in place without due justification of their exact origin. while this file is relatively uncontroversial, i feel it is always important to protect eu industry through trade mechanisms such as these.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. safeguard clauses are standard mechanisms in ftas. they are an essential means of protecting european industry in cases where the union suspects imports are being circumvented through georgia to enter the eu market under the preferential agreement, but in fact originate in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposed regulation, which will help to ensure that products that enter the eu benefit only the country concerned by the relevant trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ this is not on my voting list as being a roll-call vote. i wish to clarify for the record that i abstained, for similar reasons to the previous vote, because although i do not believe that such matters should be dealt with at eu level, i would support the accession of the uk to this treaty if it were in the british parliament.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased we brought forward this motion for a resolution in parliament; the delay in ratifying the marrakesh treaty has gone on too long. in the uk we have consistently supported the ratification of the marrakech treaty as a vital enabler of access to works by visually impaired persons and persons with print disabilities. the sooner we can ratify this treaty across the eu the better.
in writing. ‒ i warmly welcome the ratification of the treaty of marrakesh. the world health organisation estimated in 2010 that across europe there are 2 550 000 blind people and 23 800 000 partially sighted people, giving a total of 26 350 000 visually impaired individuals, yet only 5% of all published books in the developed countries and less than 1% in the developing countries are ever produced in accessible formats.
in writing. ‒ there are more than 26 million visually impaired individuals across europe with only 5% of all published books ever produced in accessible formats. therefore, i voted in favour of the resolution as it calls on member states to accelerate the ratification process of the marrakech treaty to allow greater distribution of books in formats accessible to visually impaired citizens. all except seven member states have ratified the treaty and this resolution hopes to put pressure on these remaining countries to unblock.
in writing. ‒ i warmly welcome the ratification of the treaty of marrakesh. the world health organization estimated in 2010 that across europe there are 2 550 000 blind people and 23 800 000 partially sighted people, giving a total of 26 350 000 visually impaired individuals yet only 5% of all published books in the developed countries and less than 1% in the developing countries are ever produced in accessible formats.
in writing. ‒ the petitions committee has tabled this short motion for a resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty. in particular, it calls for the council to accelerate the ratification process, as it was signed two and a half years ago, and i want to put pressure on the member states who have not yet ratified the treaty, hence i voted in favour of this short motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. – today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this objection resolution. since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 the commission has made authorisation decisions on new gmos without the support of the member state committees. this situation was intended to be an exception in the legislation, which has unfortunately become the norm. commission president juncker has failed to fulfil the promise he made as a candidate for the presidency of the commission to fix this democratic deficit in decision-making for gmos in the european union. the commission is therefore authorising the placing on the market of products with a system which it itself has recognised is flawed. it is essential that the commission now comes up with a real proposal on gmos to correct this democratic deficit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106; i am concerned by the increasing usage of delegated acts and am therefore minded to support any objections as a matter of course. in this instance, i note specifically that the world health organization has described these specific varieties as being potentially carcinogenic to humans.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. – today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ i oppose the objection resolution to the authorisation of soybean fg72. i believe that it is absolutely vital for public confidence that in europe we have a gm regulation system that is underpinned by science. this means that products passing a robust, independent safety assessment should have fair market access. the european food safety agency has declared this gm trait safe for food and feed use, and we should respect that decision made by experts, otherwise we risk undermining not only our own credibility but also the principle of science-based decision-making. the use of gm material in animal feed is significant across the eu, and our livestock sector is heavily dependent on imported gm feed materials, so it is important that eu gm authorisations proceed as rapidly as possible to keep pace with authorisations in other parts of the world and avoid significant disruption in the international trade of agricultural commodities, which could have a negative impact on food prices.
in writing. ‒ regarding gmos, i support the existing, science-based decision-making process, judged independently by the european food safety authority. the commission needs to make a proposal which includes a greater assessment of the environmental impact of gmos.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this objection because i do not believe the commission should authorise the use of glyphosate-tolerant gm soybeans in food and feed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection in order to express my opposition to authorisation of these varieties of gm soybean.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this objection because i do not believe the commission should authorise the use of glyphosate-tolerant gm soybeans in food and feed.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection because i have doubts about the use of genetically modified food, and that includes fg72 soybeans. i am aware of some of the advantages of gmos, but i personally find some of the possible negatives to be overwhelming.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of ‘objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties.’ our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans to be imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection, because i believe - like my other socialist colleagues in the chamber today - that the commission needs to come forward with a new proposal for genetically modified organisms used in food and feed, one which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of the gmos. fully informed and scientifically guided decision making process with regards to gmos that responds to public expectations is required and that is what my labour colleagues and i are supporting today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion to object to the commission’s authorising decisions in order to express opposition to authorisation of these particular varieties of gm soybean and to call on the commission to live up to its obligation to update the annexes to directive 2001/18/ec by 3 april 2017 as regards the environmental risk assessment of gmos, in line with parliament’s vote of 13 january 2015. with this decision i, along with other labour meps, voted for a fully informed and scientifically guided decision-making process with regards to gmos that responds to public expectations.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this objection resolution. since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 the commission has made authorisation decisions on new gmos without the support of the member state committees. this situation was intended to be an exception in the legislation which has unfortunately become the norm. commission president juncker has failed to fulfil the promise he made as a candidate for the presidency of the commission to fix this democratic deficit in decision-making for gmos in the european union. the commission is therefore authorising the placing on the market of products with a system which it itself has recognised is flawed. it is essential that the commission now comes up with a real proposal on gmos to correct this democratic deficit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106; i am concerned by the increasing usage of delegated acts and am therefore minded to support any objections as a matter of course. in this instance, i note specifically that the world health organization has described these specific varieties as being potentially carcinogenic to humans.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. – today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ i oppose the objection resolution to the authorisation of soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788. i believe that it is absolutely vital for public confidence that in europe we have a gm regulation system that is underpinned by science. this means that products passing a robust, independent safety assessment should have fair market access. the european food safety agency has declared this gm trait safe for food and feed use, and we should respect that decision made by experts, otherwise we risk undermining not only our own credibility but also the principle of science-based decision-making. the use of gm material in animal feed is significant across the eu, and our livestock sector is heavily dependent on imported gm feed materials, so it is important that eu gm authorisations proceed as rapidly as possible to keep pace with authorisations in other parts of the world and avoid significant disruption in the international trade of agricultural commodities, which could have a negative impact on food prices.
in writing. ‒ regarding gmos, i support the existing, science-based decision-making process, judged independently by the european food safety authority. the commission needs to make a proposal which includes a greater assessment of the environmental impact of gmos.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this objection based on the fact that the herbicide glyphosate, which the three gm soybeans tolerate (along with other herbicides in the case of fg72 and mon 87708 x mon 89788), was classified as ‘probably carcinogenic’ to humans on 20 march 2015 by the world health organization’s cancer agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection in order to express my opposition to authorisation of these varieties of gm soybean.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this objection based on the fact that the herbicide glyphosate, which the three gm soybeans tolerate (along with other herbicides in the case of fg72 and mon 87708 x mon 89788) was classified as ‘probably carcinogenic’ to humans on 20 march 2015 by the world health organization’s cancer agency.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. i also supported this objection to the commission's decision because i still have doubts about the use of genetically modified food, including soybeans mon87708xmon89788. i am aware of the advantages of using gmos, but i personally see some of the possible negatives as being more important than others, and that is what determines my position on the matter.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of ‘objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties.’ our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans to be imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection, because i believe – like my other socialist colleagues in the chamber today – that the commission needs to come forward with a new proposal for genetically modified organisms used in food and feed, one which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of the gmos. fully-informed and scientifically-guided decision-making process with regards to gmos that responds to public expectations is required, and that is what my labour colleagues and i are supporting today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion to object to the commission’s authorising decisions in order to express opposition to authorisation of these particular varieties of gm soybean and to call on the commission to live up to its obligation to update the annexes to directive 2001/18/ec by 3 april 2017 as regards the environmental risk assessment of gmos, in line with parliament’s vote of 13 january 2015. with this decision i, along with other labour meps, voted for a fully informed and scientifically guided decision-making process with regards to gmos that responds to public expectations.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this objection resolution. since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 the commission has made authorisation decisions on new gmos without the support of the member state committees. this situation was intended to be an exception in the legislation which has unfortunately become the norm. commission president juncker has failed to fulfil the promise he made as a candidate for the presidency of the commission to fix this democratic deficit in decision-making for gmos in the european union. the commission is therefore authorising the placing on the market of products with a system which it itself has recognised is flawed. it is essential that the commission now comes up with a real proposal on gmos to correct this democratic deficit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106; i am concerned by the increasing usage of delegated acts and am therefore minded to support any objections as a matter of course. in this instance, i note specifically that the world health organization has described these specific varieties as being potentially carcinogenic to humans.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. – today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ i oppose the objection resolution to the authorisation of soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788. i believe that it is absolutely vital for public confidence that in europe we have a gm regulation system that is underpinned by science. this means that products passing a robust, independent safety assessment should have fair market access. the european food safety agency has declared this gm trait safe for food and feed use, and we should respect that decision made by experts, otherwise we risk undermining not only our own credibility but also the principle of science-based decision-making. the use of gm material in animal feed is significant across the eu, and our livestock sector is heavily dependent on imported gm feed materials, so it is important that eu gm authorisations proceed as rapidly as possible to keep pace with authorisations in other parts of the world and avoid significant disruption in the international trade of agricultural commodities, which could have a negative impact on food prices.
in writing. ‒ regarding gmos, i support the existing, science-based decision-making process, judged independently by the european food safety authority. the commission needs to make a proposal which includes a greater assessment of the environmental impact of gmos.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal noting that gmos are being authorised in the eu without the support of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection in order to express my opposition to authorisation of these varieties of gm soybean.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal noting that gmos are being authorised in the eu without the support of member states.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ in the case of this particular objection to the decision taken by the european commission, i voted in favour because i still have doubts about the use of genetically modified food, including for mon87705xmon8978 soybeans. i recognize some of the advantages of using gmos, but personally i am overwhelmed by some of the possible negatives, and that is what determines my position.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of ‘objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties.’ our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans to be imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of objection pursuant to rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybean varieties. our vote in favour will stop three genetically modified soybeans being imported into the eu and processed into feed and food.
in writing. ‒ this is the third and final objection relating to gmo soybeans. the objection states that in october we rejected the new commission proposal on gm food and feed and called on the commission to devise a new one, and as such no new gm food/feed should be authorised under the current legal framework, which even the commission acknowledges is not working in a satisfactory way. i will reiterate that the commission must come forward with a new proposal on this matter and for gmo food and feed in general and develop a fully-informed and decision-making process that is grounded in science when it comes to gmos and one that responds to the public concerns and expectations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion to object to the commission’s authorising decisions in order to express opposition to authorisation of these particular varieties of gm soybean and to call on the commission to live up to its obligation to update the annexes to directive 2001/18/ec by 3 april 2017 as regards the environmental risk assessment of gmos, in line with parliament’s vote of 13 january 2015. with this decision i, along with other labour meps, voted for a fully informed and scientifically guided decision-making process with regards to gmos that responds to public expectations.
madam president, everyone knows that the volkswagen emissions scandal was a disaster for the car industry, but i think we underestimate the extent to which it was also a disaster for the european union. thousands of people died needlessly because of a policy driven, uniquely in the european union, as a result of corporate lobbying. why did the eu – uniquely in the world – go down the road of promoting diesel, which had always been regarded up until then as the dirtier option? american and japanese regulators were pushing for hybrid or electric cars but the eu, uniquely, following lobbying from certain car firms which had invented the new engine, decided to push the use of a fuel that emits 40 times as much nitrogen oxide as petrol and 22 times as many pollutants and particulates. we do not know how many people died because the cause of death will have been recorded as heart failure or cancer, not as breathing in a kind of fuel, but they are victims of the corporate lobbying nexus that has grown up in brussels, and we are all complicit in that tragedy.
in writing. ‒ whilst i would normally vote in favour of an objection to a delegated act, i have some concerns over the proposed alternatives and their viability. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ whilst i do understand some of the concerns of the proposers of this objection resolution i do not think that opposing the real driving emissions (rde) testing proposal is the right answer at this time. the introduction of rde tests for new cars as proposed by the technical committee on motor vehicles will bring clear reductions in nox emissions and improve air quality. i do not think we should delay the introduction of rde testing by months or possibly even years. current european car emissions tests remain unchanged in almost thirty years and it is critical that we in the european parliament endorse this latest step towards improving the testing regime. rejection of this measure does not guarantee a quick revision on more ambitious lines from member states; more likely it risks prolonged inaction and regulatory uncertainty. so for those reasons i am opposed to this objection.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour colleagues, i strongly support the swift introduction of real driving emissions (rde) testing so that emission tests for cars reflect pollution emitted on the road and not just in laboratories. the proposed draft regulation will allow manufacturers to bring to the market vehicles emitting more than double the amount of nitrogen oxides (nox) set by the euro 6 emission standards agreed by the co-legislators in 2007. furthermore, the figure of 1.5 contradicts the commission’s own assessment of average pems error of measurement, which calculated a maximum conformity factor of 1.2. by changing the emission limit values enshrined in the basic eu regulation, the draft regulation exceeds implementing powers provided for in the basic euro 6 regulation.
in writing. ‒ julie girling mep on behalf of uk conservative delegation. i voted against the comitology objection today. rde is a crucial issue that must be introduced as soon as possible. whilst not perfect, we must ensure that we get the principle of rde into regulations without delay. the agreement struck at the tcmv allows us to move forward to the next stage of delivering on rde. the commission has shown its commitment with the recent formal statement and we must hold member states to their commitment to deliver a review of conformity factors and a clear path to a factor of one. this is not about allowing car manufacturer to breach euro 6 standards, but rather about recognising the type approval mechanism is not perfect and ensuring the shift to rde. the conformity factors included are not as low as technologically feasible, but they are transitional and the mechanism of annual review will allow the consideration of technological improvement moving forward. we have to get these key reforms going, and give some necessary legal and investment certainty. this measure is a major step forward in addressing europe’s air quality issues.
in writing. ‒ the technical committee on motor vehicles – chaired by the european commission and consisting of national experts – agreed on the second package of rde test procedure on 28 october 2015. in spite of the recent emission measurement scandal and the widespread exceedances of nox limits throughout europe, the committee agreed to allow euro 6 diesel cars to emit over double the euro 6 limit from 2017 to 2020, and 50% after 2020, de facto increasing the standard to 120 mg/km forever. for these reasons we cannot accept the political decision made in the technical committee. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this objection and request a new proposal from the commission by 1 april 2016.
in writing. ‒ labour meps strongly support the swift introduction of real driving emissions (rde) testing so that emission tests for cars reflect pollution emitted on the road and not just in laboratories. the proposed draft regulation will allow manufacturers to bring to the market vehicles emitting more than double the amount of nitrogen oxides (nox) set by the euro 6 emission standards agreed by the co-legislators in 2007. furthermore the figure of 1.5 contradicts the commission’s own assessment of average pems error of measurement, which calculated a maximum conformity factor of 1.2. by changing the emission limit values enshrined in the basic eu regulation, the draft regulation exceeds implementing powers provided for in the basic euro 6 regulation.
in writing. ‒ i decided not to support this objection after the eu commission promised a review clause and tabled a long-term legislative proposal to revamp the eu car approval regime.
in writing. ‒ labour meps strongly support the swift introduction of real driving emissions (rde) testing so that emission tests for cars reflect pollution emitted on the road and not just in laboratories. the proposed draft regulation will allow manufacturers to bring to the market vehicles emitting more than double the amount of nitrogen oxides (nox) set by the euro 6 emission standards agreed by the co-legislators in 2007. furthermore, the figure of 1.5 contradicts the commission’s own assessment of average pems error of measurement, which calculated a maximum conformity factor of 1.2. by changing the emission limit values enshrined in the basic eu regulation, the draft regulation exceeds implementing powers provided for in the basic euro 6 regulation.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this parliament objection. whilst i share some of the concerns it expresses, particularly the flexibility provided by a 2.1 conformity factor, i believe that these concerns must be dealt with in parallel to the approval of the rde testing regime. i believe that the introduction of rde tests for new cars as proposed here will bring clear reductions in nox emissions and improve air quality; therefore it would not be the right response to delay the introduction of rde testing by months or possibly even years.
madam president, with today’s resolution on the tisa negotiations we are calling on the commission to change course in these negotiations. this was not an endorsement of a tisa agreement. any tisa agreement must help, rather than weaken, the re-regulation of global trade in services. citizens have a voice in the european union and that voice is in this house, the democratically-elected european parliament. rather than exercise their powers with responsibility to get results for citizens, some meps have chosen to act irresponsibly just to get their press release. the public should not be fooled by this appalling attitude. we have to stand for fair trade and take our responsibilities in acting for it in this house.
madam president, we are often told during the british referendum debate that eu membership is necessary for our service sector. yet here we are in this chamber discussing a free-trade deal on services that, as well as the european union, brings together 22 other members of the wto, from australia and israel to korea and peru. the difference is that, while norway and switzerland will be represented separately in those talks at the wto, the united kingdom, like every other member state of the eu, will be represented by one 28th of a european commissioner. for a country that is so dependent on the service sector, that seems to me a disadvantaged position. we could do far better in the world if we were to rediscover our place as a maritime trading nation with a global vocation.
in writing. ‒ the report largely transposes the framework of the general agreement on trade in services (gats) of the world trade organisation (wto). efdd amendments 2-7 strengthen the report in order to allow for the full exclusion of public services from tisa, the right to reverse commitments, and the right to withdraw from the agreement. since these amendments did not pass as a bloc, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution as a whole. the resolution passed as amended. however, ukip meps voted for amendment 3 (25), which calls for a clause allowing withdrawal from the agreement and reversal of commitments by each signatory – and this amendment passed, with those voting against including the entire british delegation from the ecr group, as well as the entire epp group. we voted for amendment 22, calling for a positive-list approach in tisa (mirroring the existing wto rules on services and trade). we voted in favour of this.
in writing. – the report largely transposes the framework of the general agreement on trade in services (gats) of the world trade organisation (wto). efdd amendments 2-7 strengthen the report in order to allow for the full exclusion of public services from tisa, the right to reverse commitments, and the right to withdraw from the agreement. since these amendments did not pass as a bloc, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution as a whole. the resolution passed as amended. however, ukip meps voted for amendment 3 (25), which calls for a clause allowing withdrawal from the agreement and reversal of commitments by each signatory – and this amendment passed, with those voting against including the entire british delegation from the ecr group, as well as the entire epp group. we voted for amendment 22, calling for a positive-list approach in tisa (mirroring the existing wto rules on services and trade). we voted in favour of this, along with other british meps janice atkinson (enf), martina anderson (gue), jill evans, jean lambert, molly scott cato, and alyn smith (all greens). all british ecr group members voted against the amendment, while all british s&d group members abstained.
in writing. – we voted against this report, which essentially endorses the eu’s trade and liberalisation strategy. sinn féin believes the negotiations for the trade in services agreement – currently being negotiated between the eu, the us and 23 other countries – should be suspended. the tisa will create an international legal regime which aims to deregulate and privatise the supply of services. our concerns about tisa include: the lack of transparency; workers’ rights; and the accelerated privatisation of public services. of particular concern is the impact that tisa may have on the financial services sector. from what we have seen in leaked negotiation texts published by wikileaks last year, tisa may require states to stop and reverse the financial regulation measures put in place in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. it is clear from the leaked tisa annex on financial services that tisa’s extreme deregulation agenda would apply to virtually the entire financial sector. governments would be forced to deregulate banking, derivatives, insurance, stocks and bonds, foreign exchange, credit cards, financial data processing, credit-rating and other financial services. if a state refuses to conform to tisa rules it would face trade sanctions. that is a recipe for disaster.
in writing. ‒ i supported the efdd amendments to tisa which aimed, inter alia, to protect public services from the agreement. i do not feel that the report went far enough in some areas to protect public services and consumers, but i do support the overall tone of the report which highlights concerns that need to be addressed. i felt that to vote in favour might signify acceptance that certain amendments had not passed, and might be perceived as supporting a common position. i therefore abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the report largely transposes the framework of the general agreement on trade in services (gats) of the world trade organisation (wto). efdd amendments 2-7 strengthen the report in order to allow for the full exclusion of public services from tisa, the right to reverse commitments, and the right to withdraw from the agreement. since these amendments did not pass as a bloc, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution as a whole. the resolution passed as amended. however, ukip meps voted for amendment 3 (25), which calls for a clause allowing withdrawal from the agreement and reversal of commitments by each signatory – and this amendment passed, with those voting against including the entire british delegation from the ecr group, as well as the entire epp group. we voted for amendment 22, calling for a positive-list approach in tisa (mirroring the existing wto rules on services and trade). we voted in favour of this, along with other british meps janice atkinson (enf), martina anderson (gue), jill evans, jean lambert, molly scott cato and alyn smith (all greens). all british ecr group members voted against the amendment, while all british s&d group members abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report largely transposes the framework of the general agreement on trade in services (gats) of the world trade organisation (wto). efdd amendments 2-7 strengthen the report in order to allow for the full exclusion of public services from tisa, the right to reverse commitments, and the right to withdraw from the agreement. since these amendments did not pass as a bloc, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution as a whole. the resolution passed as amended. however, ukip meps voted for amendment 3 (25), which calls for a clause allowing withdrawal from the agreement and reversal of commitments by each signatory – and this amendment passed, with those voting against including the entire british delegation from the ecr group, as well as the entire epp group. we voted for amendment 22, calling for a positive-list approach in tisa (mirroring the existing wto rules on services and trade). we voted in favour of this, along with other british meps janice atkinson (enf), martina anderson (gue), jill evans, jean lambert, molly scott cato and alyn smith (all greens). all british ecr group members voted against the amendment, while all british s&d group members abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report largely transposes the framework of the general agreement on trade in services (gats) of the world trade organisation (wto). efdd amendments 2-7 strengthen the report in order to allow for the full exclusion of public services from tisa, the right to reverse commitments, and the right to withdraw from the agreement. since these amendments did not pass as a bloc, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution as a whole. the resolution passed as amended. however, ukip meps voted for amendment 3 (25), which calls for a clause allowing withdrawal from the agreement and reversal of commitments by each signatory – and this amendment passed, with those voting against including the entire british delegation from the ecr group, as well as the entire epp group. we voted for amendment 22, calling for a positive-list approach in tisa (mirroring the existing wto rules on services and trade). we voted in favour of this, along with other british meps janice atkinson (enf), martina anderson (gue), jill evans, jean lambert, molly scott cato and alyn smith (all greens). all british ecr group members voted against the amendment, while all british s&d group members abstained.
in writing. – the report largely transposes the framework of the general agreement on trade in services (gats) of the world trade organisation (wto). efdd amendments 2-7 strengthen the report in order to allow for the full exclusion of public services from tisa, the right to reverse commitments, and the right to withdraw from the agreement. since these amendments did not pass as a bloc, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution as a whole. the resolution passed as amended. however, ukip meps voted for amendment 3 (25), which calls for a clause allowing withdrawal from the agreement and reversal of commitments by each signatory – and this amendment passed, with those voting against including the entire british delegation from the ecr group, as well as the entire epp group. we voted for amendment 22, calling for a positive-list approach in tisa (mirroring the existing wto rules on services and trade). we voted in favour of this, along with other british meps janice atkinson (enf), martina anderson (gue), jill evans, jean lambert, molly scott cato and alyn smith (all greens). all british ecr group members voted against the amendment, while all british s&d group members abstained.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report and many of the recommendations contained within it. if successfully concluded, the trade in services agreement, covering as it does partners accounting for 70% of global trade in services, will be a fantastic tool for reform, and bring the trade in services rules into the digital age. we need to ensure that in negotiations the commission seeks ambitious market access openings for eu companies in public procurement, telecoms, transport, and financial and professional services, while ensuring that any movement of people to provide services remains without prejudice to the right of member states to manage and legislate concerning access to their labour markets and determine their rules concerning the immigration of natural persons. this will create many more trading opportunities for smes as well as boosting access for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the trade in services agreement because it does not deal with the major concerns about the negotiations. the resolution does contain some positive points – namely the demand to exclude all public services and services of general interest (for example, healthcare and water) from the negotiations. it is very important to my constituents in wales that protection of public services is guaranteed. i will continue to work for this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which covers key aspects on trade in services, including extensive safeguards for workers. it is clear that global rules on the trade in services are in need of an update, and i believe this report goes some way to addressing that.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the tisa report which includes the full exclusion of all public services; strong safeguards for workers; a new binding clause to guarantee data privacy; and greater transparency. trade in services is vital for the uk and the current rules are grossly outdated, as there was virtually no internet trade back in 1995. so the status quo is not an option: we absolutely need reform, but not at the cost of workers’ rights, and not at the expense of our public services, especially the nhs. the trade in services is a significant and growing part of the eu economy. creating a level playing field and opening global markets to european service providers is long overdue and crucial to the protection and promotion of jobs in the european union.
in writing. ‒ labour meps supported this report. the trade in services is a significant and growing part of the eu economy. we need to create a level playing field for this and opening global markets to european service providers is crucial for the protection and promotion of jobs in the european union. the trade in services agreement is an opportunity not only to boost our economy but to update trade rules for the benefit of all and to close loopholes which allow workers to be exploited. preventing social dumping and ensuring strict data protection is vital as e-commerce grows. labour meps are also very clear about the need for transparency in all trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. trade in services is vital for the uk and the current rules are grossly outdated, as there was virtually no internet trade back in 1995. so the status quo is not an option: we absolutely need reform, but not at the cost of workers’ rights, and not at the expense of our public services, especially the nhs. we also need more transparency in trade agreements, secrecy is not an option. tisa can help close loopholes that are currently used to abuse workers and consumers, but the commission needs to get it right. with this vote, we are giving a new mandate to the commission. if it fails to respect it, the european parliament will not accept the outcome of the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the ongoing talks on a trade in services agreement (tisa), among countries representing 70% of world trade in services, should deliver a deal that eases eu firms’ access to international markets but does not force eu, national and local authorities to open up public services to competition, or otherwise restrict their right to regulate in the public interest.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the tisa report which includes the full exclusion of all public services; strong safeguards for workers; a new binding clause to guarantee data privacy; and greater transparency. trade in services is vital for the uk and the current rules are grossly outdated, as there was virtually no internet trade back in 1995. so the status quo is not an option: we absolutely need reform, but not at the cost of workers’ rights, and not at the expense of our public services, especially the nhs. the trade in services is a significant and growing part of the eu economy. creating a level playing field and opening global markets to european service providers is long overdue and crucial to the protection and promotion of jobs in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report largely transposes the framework of the general agreement on trade in services (gats) of the world trade organisation (wto). efdd amendments 2-7 strengthen the report in order to allow for the full exclusion of public services from tisa, the right to reverse commitments, and the right to withdraw from the agreement. since these amendments did not pass as a bloc, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution as a whole. the resolution passed as amended. however, ukip meps voted for amendment 3 (25), which calls for a clause allowing withdrawal from the agreement and reversal of commitments by each signatory – and this amendment passed, with those voting against including the entire british delegation from the ecr group, as well as the entire epp group. we voted for amendment 22, calling for a positive-list approach in tisa (mirroring the existing wto rules on services and trade). we voted in favour of this, along with other british meps janice atkinson (enf), martina anderson (gue), jill evans, jean lambert, molly scott cato and alyn smith (all greens). all british ecr group members voted against the amendment, while all british s&d group members abstained.
in writing. ‒ free trade is good for the union as a whole and for my home country, the czech republic, from which my voters sent me here. for this reason, i support the negotiation of the tisa agreement, because it can extend free trade in services.
in writing. ‒ the report largely transposes the framework of the general agreement on trade in services (gats) of the world trade organisation (wto). efdd amendments 2-7 strengthen the report in order to allow for the full exclusion of public services from tisa, the right to reverse commitments, and the right to withdraw from the agreement. since these amendments did not pass as a bloc, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution as a whole. the resolution passed as amended. however, ukip meps voted for amendment 3-25, which calls for a clause allowing withdrawal from the agreement and reversal of commitments by each signatory – and this amendment passed, with those voting against including the entire british delegation from the ecr group, as well as the entire epp group. we voted for amendment 22, calling for a positive-list approach in tisa (mirroring the existing wto rules on services and trade). we voted in favour of this, along with other british meps janice atkinson (enf), martina anderson (gue), jill evans, jean lambert, molly scott cato and alyn smith (all greens). all british ecr group members voted against the amendment, while all british s&d group members abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report largely transposes the framework of the general agreement on trade in services (gats) of the world trade organisation (wto). efdd amendments 2-7 strengthen the report in order to allow for the full exclusion of public services from tisa, the right to reverse commitments, and the right to withdraw from the agreement. since these amendments did not pass as a bloc, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution as a whole. the resolution passed as amended. however, ukip meps voted for amendment 3 (25), which calls for a clause allowing withdrawal from the agreement and reversal of commitments by each signatory – and this amendment passed, with those voting against including the entire british delegation from the ecr group, as well as the entire epp group. we voted for amendment 22, calling for a positive-list approach in tisa (mirroring the existing wto rules on services and trade). we voted in favour of this, along with other british meps janice atkinson (enf), martina anderson (gue), jill evans, jean lambert, molly scott cato and alyn smith (all greens). all british ecr group members voted against the amendment, while all british s&d group members abstained.
in writing. ‒ the trade in services agreement is a massively controversial negotiation process and international agreement. the rules on global trade in services are in great need of an update, but we cannot just accept any deal and the commission must take these recommendations into account when securing a final tisa agreement if there is any hope of the commission getting the european parliament's approval. it is great to see the amount of participation in the agreement of this report setting out the parliament's position on the tisa negotiations and that the parliament has come to such an agreement in the end.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which is in alignment with a number of my priorities and a number of the priorities of my labour mep colleagues. it supports a full carve-out for public services, increased transparency and involvement of civil society and extensive safeguards for workers, including equal pay for equal work. i therefore welcome this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and i will continue to support calls for an ambitious trade agreement, which will give world class uk firms market access to 70% of world trade in services markets.
in writing. ‒ the trade in services agreement is an important part of modernising our trade rules to reflect the globalised world that we live in today. however, workers’ rights remain the same and should be protected. i have voted to protect these rights and to exempt public services. i have also voted to ensure data privacy is respected by asking for an exemption from the agreement for european data protection regulations. this report also demanded a detailed response from the commission on all of the points that have been raised, a measure i am happy to back to promote transparency in these negotiations.
in writing. ‒ international agreements like tisa will shape globalisation in the 21st century. it is our responsibility to ensure that international trade puts people and planet before profit, and that it raises standards globally, leading to real growth which is sustainable and inclusive, and trade that is fair for all. at the same time, trade agreements must be negotiated transparently, and must not compromise governments’ abilities to govern, or affect our public services. i voted in favour of this report as it sets out a strong parliament position, demanding high standards, protecting public services and workers’ rights. this is a clear signal to the commission as to the kind of tisa we would be willing to accept.
madam president, i did not support the resolution that we voted on today, which was proposed by colleagues from the left. i'm standing because i don't want to say by this vote that i'm against equality between men and women, in any way. i am, of course, in favour of absolute equality between men and women, but the question is what means are we to use to achieve this. and whether the measures that our colleagues on the left have in particular debated and proposed are even feasible, and whether the individual member states in the european council, for example, will then be willing to accept and support them. and that's where i think the real policy is, what we're able to push and implement, is different from nice declarations in lofty words, from things that end up on paper. and i'm interested, as a real politician, in what we're able to achieve in real terms. look at the problems with the directive on quotas for women on company boards. this material has been found in the cabinet, and i'm afraid that it may be the case with other ideas.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it contained calls for more eu interference, initiatives and taxpayer-funding. current eu policies have completely failed women, as witnessed by the attacks and rising incidence of assault and harassment in public places. ukip believes the only people who should decide such strategies are our own elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it contained calls for more eu interference, initiatives and taxpayer funding. current eu policies have completely failed women, as witnessed by the attacks and rising incidents of assault and harassment in public places. ukip believes the only people who should decide such strategies are our own elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for resolution from other political groups, having preferred the wording of the efdd resolution, and feeling that the final resolution requested commission action in areas where it should not.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it contained calls for more eu interference, initiatives and taxpayer funding. current eu policies have completely failed women, as witnessed by the attacks and rising incidents of assault and harassment in public places. ukip believes the only people who should decide such strategies are our own elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it contained calls for more eu interference, initiatives and taxpayer funding. current eu policies have completely failed women, as witnessed by the attacks and rising incidents of assault and harassment in public places. ukip believes the only people who should decide such strategies are our own elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it contained calls for more eu interference, initiatives and taxpayer funding. current eu policies have completely failed women, as witnessed by the attacks and rising incidents of assault and harassment in public places. ukip believes the only people who should decide such strategies are our own elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it contained calls for more eu interference, initiatives and taxpayer funding. current eu policies have completely failed women, as witnessed by the attacks and rising incidents of assault and harassment in public places. ukip believes the only people who should decide such strategies are our own elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ the eu has played a key role in promoting gender equality. yet, we should not be complacent. across europe, progress on gender equality has ground to a halt in recent years and in many areas we have gone backwards. gender equality is not only an end in itself but an essential component in promoting fair and sustainable economic growth. in order to be effective, and to avoid fragmentation, our approach must take the form of a comprehensive and official action plan which addresses every dimension of inequality and proposes clear outputs. the staff working document published by the commission at the end of last year simply will not cut it. my labour colleagues and i made our position clear in a resolution adopted by this parliament last year: we need a clear, comprehensive and achievable strategy for women’s rights and gender equality. the december epsco council agreed that this should take the form of a commission communication and the commission’s own consultation showed overwhelming public support for a new strategy. the commission should now adopt an official 2016-2020 strategy and focus on delivering concrete action.
in writing. – the uk delegation is fully committed to the principle of equality between men and women and we recognise that gender equality is a core value of the eu. accordingly, we have voted in favour of those paragraphs and amendments that reaffirm the fundamental right of all men and women to equal treatment and equality in opportunity. the uk delegation was unable to support the text as a whole due to some notable elements which were of concern to us. first, we believe a budget should be allocated to where the need is greatest. a dedicated gender budget runs the risk of diverting funds away from other groups. secondly, we were unable to support the call for a package of legislative proposals, initiated by the commission. we are consistent in our firm belief that national governments are responsible for social policy and consequently cannot support the attempted ‘europeanisation’ of this policy field. the uk delegation was unable to support this resolution but felt it was more appropriate to abstain in this instance. we were happy to support alternative texts tabled by the epp political group and our own group, the ecr.
in writing. ‒ labour meps made our position clear in a resolution adopted by this parliament last year: we need a clear, comprehensive and achievable strategy for women’s rights and gender equality. this must take the form of commission communication, not a staff working document. the commission’s own consultation showed overwhelming public support for a new strategy, and the december epsco council supported this position too. the commission should now adopt an official 2016-2020 strategy and focus on making gender equality – a core value of the eu – a reality.
in writing. ‒ labour meps made our position clear in a resolution adopted by this parliament last year: we need a clear, comprehensive and achievable strategy for women’s rights and gender equality. this must take the form of commission communication, not a staff working document. the commission’s own consultation showed overwhelming public support for a new strategy and the december epsco council supported this position too. the commission should now adopt an official 2016 -2020 strategy and focus on making gender equality – a core value of the eu – a reality.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. the eu has been instrumental in promoting gender equality. unfortunately, across europe, progress on gender equality has stalled in recent years and in many areas we have gone backwards. labour meps made their position clear in a resolution adopted by this parliament last year: we need a clear, comprehensive and achievable strategy for women’s rights and gender equality. the december epsco council agreed that this should take the form of a commission communication and the commission’s own consultation showed overwhelming public support for a new strategy. the commission should now adopt an official 2016-2020 strategy and focus on delivering concrete action.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which ‘considers it regrettable that the 2016 commission work programme, published in november 2015, made no specific mention of the eu strategy for gender equality post-2015; deplores the fact that on 3 december 2015 the commission published only a staff working document entitled ‘strategic engagement for gender equality 2016-2019’, thereby not only presenting a downgraded internal document but also restricting the duration of its action’.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it contained calls for more eu interference, initiatives and taxpayer funding. current eu policies have completely failed women, as witnessed by the attacks and rising incidents of assault and harassment in public places. ukip believes the only people who should decide such strategies are our own elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it contained calls for more eu interference, initiatives and taxpayer funding. current eu policies have completely failed women, as witnessed by the attacks and rising incidents of assault and harassment in public places. ukip believes the only people who should decide such strategies are our own elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it contained calls for more eu interference, initiatives and taxpayer funding. current eu policies have completely failed women, as witnessed by the attacks and rising incidents of assault and harassment in public places. ukip believes the only people who should decide such strategies are our own elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ the eu has been instrumental in promoting gender equality. however, we cannot afford to be complacent. across europe, progress on gender equality has stalled in recent years and in many areas we have gone backwards. gender equality is not only an end in itself but a key component in promoting fair and sustainable economic growth. in order to be effective, and to avoid fragmentation, our approach must take the form of a comprehensive and official action plan which addresses every dimension of inequality and proposes clear outputs. the staff working document published by the commission at the end of last year simply will not cut it. i, alongside my labour colleagues, have made our position clear in a resolution adopted by this parliament last year: we need a clear, comprehensive and achievable strategy for women’s rights and gender equality. the december epsco council agreed that this should take the form of a commission communication, and the commission’s own consultation showed overwhelming public support for a new strategy. the commission should now adopt an official 2016 -2020 strategy and focus on delivering concrete action.
in writing. ‒ the labour party in the european parliament has always been very serious on the issue of gender equality. however, no complacency can be afforded. across europe, progress in improving the rights and the economic status of women has stalled and in some areas is being reversed. we cannot create fair and sustainable economic growth without gender equality at all levels of our society. in order to be effective our strategy must take the form of a comprehensive and official action plan which addresses every dimension of inequality and proposes clear outputs. the staff working document published by the commission at the end of last year is simply inadequate. we need a clear, comprehensive and achievable strategy for women’s rights and gender equality. the december epsco council agreed that this should take the form of a commission communication and the commission’s own consultation showed overwhelming public support for a new strategy. the commission should now adopt an official 2016 -2020 strategy and focus on delivering concrete action.
in writing. ‒ the eu has been instrumental in promoting gender equality. however, we cannot afford to be complacent. across europe, progress on gender equality has stalled in recent years and in many areas we have gone backwards. gender equality is not only an end in itself but a key component in promoting fair and sustainable economic growth. in order to be effective, and to avoid fragmentation, our approach must take the form of a comprehensive and official action plan which addresses every dimension of inequality and proposes clear outputs. the staff working document published by the commission at the end of last year is disappointing and ineffectual. labour meps made their position clear in a resolution adopted by this parliament last year: we need a clear, comprehensive and achievable strategy for women’s rights and gender equality. the december epsco council agreed that this should take the form of a commission communication and the commission’s own consultation showed overwhelming public support for a new strategy. the commission should now adopt an official 2016-2020 strategy and focus on delivering concrete action.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, as rapporteur for neighbouring montenegro i worked closely with david mcallister and congratulate him on this year’s report on serbia. serbia is still in the relatively early stages of eu accession, having only just completed the screening process in march of last year. the report shows, nevertheless, that there has been progress in a number of areas of the acquis and that there is reason to be optimistic about serbia’s ability to continue along this trajectory, in spite of the stresses coming about from the refugee crisis but aided by the fact that there are better relations in terms of dialogue with kosovo. serbia-montenegro relations continue to be strong and are developing. the joint centre for police cooperation continues to develop and is an institution that has the potential to be further utilised in the fight against cross-border crime and corruption. i agree with david that chapters 23 and 24 must be opened soon. an agreement regarding the exchange of social security data is also a welcome step, whilst the implementation of the existing 2015 agreement aimed at reducing mobile roaming charges across the region will also help sell the practical benefits of better cooperation. i also take the opportunity to call on the belgrade government to try to more closely align itself – particularly on chapter 31 – with the eu common foreign and security policy (cfsp), particularly over sanctions with russia. serbia is a key player in the western balkans and its eu accession process is very much part of the process of stabilising the entire region.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, this progress report perfectly highlights a key aspect of the upcoming uk referendum on our eu membership, when the british people will not just be voting on our current relationship with the european union but also on the prospect that a ‘stay’ vote grants de facto permission for the eu to move, full steam ahead, with their neo-colonialist ambitions. in the midst of the current migration crisis, the promise of reaching the uk, sweden and germany and the rest of the eu has – as we have witnessed – placed a great burden on serbia. this situation will become further compounded by eventual serbian eu membership. i cannot fathom how the eu’s proposed solution to the current migration crisis – bringing its borders closer to the middle east and thus further facilitating this mass transit of people – can be seen as doing anything other than compounding this crisis further. the increasing public concern over the issue of the free movement of people perfectly underlines the failure of mr cameron’s farcical renegotiation and supports the case for britain to see the eu for what it is and, accordingly, to vote to leave for a brighter and bigger future. the world is our oyster, but inside the european union, britain’s future is as a clam.
madam president, i join others in this chamber in welcoming the opening of the first eu negotiating chapters, including chapter 35 on normalisation of relations with kosovo. i also want chapters 23 and 24 on justice and fundamental rights open for this and all accession countries, and i support commissioner hahn’s efforts in this respect. in serbia, as in some other balkan countries, this is the correct way to address concerns about deteriorating human rights. early elections in april will be a test of the quality of the country’s democracy, especially for the rights of opposition parties, and human rights watch says that freedom of the press in serbia is under threat. the osce reported 34 attacks on journalists in 2015, and the balkan investigative reporting network has published accounts of independent media being smeared as foreign spies by the tabloids. i ask the commissioner to comment in his reply on one further difficult issue, but one which we should not dodge: what we should read into the joint military exercises between serbia and russia. i join colleagues in appealing for european solidarity with all in serbia, including in relation to security issues, but i am pleased that the eu is showing that same solidarity back by devoting some of the trust fund for refugees to assisting the country, recognising serbia’s commitment to engage in the eu quota system. we want serbia to be part of european integration and to be part of european solutions.
in writing.– the 2015 progress report rightly reflects the fact that serbia has made significant strides on reforms to fight corruption and strengthen the rule of law. these efforts should be recognised and welcomed. however, there is still more work to be done to protect the independence and integrity of the judicial system and access to justice, and exercise of freedom of expression. and, as the report highlights, serbia also needs to focus on other concerns and sectors, for example the education system, promoting work and training for young people, respecting the rights of workers, development of the public transport system, and respecting its environmental and energy commitments. as a socialist member of our serbia committee, i would have preferred that the report emphasise further that the social dimension of eu accession must be addressed. employment, labour and trade union rights still remain limited. it is also clear that social dialogue in serbia remains weak and the consultation of social partners irregular. agency and other less secure workers are not adequately protected. furthermore, restructuring and privatisation should not be regarded as goals for their own sake. many serbians rely on public sector jobs and negative employment effects must be avoided where possible.
madam president, i welcome the recommendation by my colleague ulrike lunacek regarding the conclusion of this agreement, which not only enhances political dialogue and opens new forms of cooperation but also creates opportunities to enhance contact between peoples. citizens and civil society must be included in the process of implementation of the agreement and citizens must be informed about the process in a transparent manner. citizen initiatives remain at the heart of ongoing work in kosovo to document sexual violence conducted by serbian military and paramilitary forces during the conflict, to locate missing people and mass graves and to rebuild lives, and this must be supported. i deeply believe that more consideration must be given to the power of civil society to pursue intercultural exchange, people-to-people dialogue and initiatives bringing together citizens from eu member states and kosovo, particularly in respect of young people. kosovan youth are the promise of its future. they are the ones who stand to gain from the ongoing dialogue. a young generation of kosovars have grown up with the european vision and we must not let them down.
madam president, in various questions that i have asked the commission on territories seeking their right to self-determination, i have heard how the eu respects the principles of internationally-recognised borders and that they do not have the competency to recognise states. does this not perfectly highlight the hypocrisy of the european union: how willing it is to bend and even break its own rules when the ends justify the means? kosovo is not a united nations-recognised state. however, the eu has extensive relations with the territory and even recognises it as a potential candidate country, despite no permanent and viable political solution between serbia and kosovo currently being on the table. if anything, the current heavy-handed diplomacy by the high representative in the establishment of serbian municipalities within kosovo only works to further destabilise the region. is there anything the european union would not do to pursue its neo-colonialist agenda?
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, as the un—brokered talks continue, we must remain optimistic that the agreement reached in december of last year can be fully implemented and that a stable and durable libyan government of national accord can now be formed. such discussions take time, however, and we cannot ignore the growing presence of isis in the region. as the coalition against isis meets in rome to discuss progress, militarily speaking, in iraq and syria, i am pleased to see that libya is also now on the agenda. all options must remain open. i welcome the news that the united states is considering military offensives against isis in libya, as well as syria and iraq, in the event of a un agreement breaking down. whilst reports suggest that the french government has ruled out any further military action, i would hope that other eu member states, not least my own, the united kingdom, would also consider supporting such action, as we were active in libya when the gaddafi regime fell. entrenched isis strongholds on the coast of libya after their defeat in syria or iraq would constitute a complete failure of the neighbourhood policy and pose a grave security risk to eu member states, particularly in the context of the migration crisis.
mr president, in my constituency, northern ireland, and indeed for all victims of gaddafi-sponsored ira terrorism, the fight for justice and compensation goes on. the northern ireland affairs select committee at westminster has rightly criticised our former prime minister, tony blair, for his unwillingness to give straight answers to straight questions regarding what discussions he had about compensation for ira victims when colonel gaddafi was in power. his approach ignores the valid concerns of innocent victims of terrorism. i am under no illusions; we must see a relative and sustainable peace in libya in order to further our goal of negotiating a fair financial settlement for these innocent victims. in libya we want a peace that is democratic, upholds fundamental freedoms, and that provides space for religious minorities who, at present, live under an escalating threat of persecution. we in this house must play our part in bringing that about. but we must then stand with the victims of ira terrorism in pressing their right to compensation.
blue-card question.– thank you, colleague, for taking my blue card. do you agree with me that the european union getting involved in this dispute further complicates the situation? should this not ideally be left to local actors, i.e. the african union, with support from the united nations? is european union meddling just exacerbating the situation and making it worse?
mr president, david cameron’s support for the un resolution to overthrow the gaddafi regime in libya is a classic example of the short-sighted reaction to events which these days takes the place of any proper strategic thinking on the international stage. by overthrowing a dictator using a bombing campaign, we created anarchy in libya and left a power vacuum which the murderers of islamic state have been able to exploit. what this has led to is a humanitarian crisis on the eu’s external borders, the consequences of which we saw this summer and continue to see in the mediterranean, in scandinavia, calais, and of course the recent disgraceful events in germany. and now the eu wants to lead the military mission in resolving the situation in libya, as we heard from the chairman of the eu military committee at last week’s defence committee meeting. i would suggest that rather than dilute our sovereignty further by joining up with the doomed-to-fail eu mission, the uk government instead learn from its mistakes and stop rushing in to remove leaders without considering the consequences. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – right: if you go around interfering in foreign countries without having a plan for fixing it, what you do instead is you bring horror and terror to the poor people who live there and you bring terrorism and issues relating to this to your own borders. i hope that clears it.
mr president, while i support un-brokered negotiations and hope that they bring lasting peace to libya, the reality on the ground is particularly worrying. mounting speculation about another military intervention in libya shows that the country is closer to chaos than anything else. ultimately, this is yet another stinging indictment of the international community’s inability to effect positive change in the region. if libya were to fall apart again, it could also have a devastating impact on tunisia – alas, the only bright spot of the so-called arab spring. this would only add insult to injury. a lasting outcome will undoubtedly require concessions, patience and, most significantly, libyan solutions to libyan problems. nevertheless, we must support democratic reform, as the consequences of failing again would be far more dramatic than what libya and its people are living through right now.
mr president, time is running out to stabilise libya. the security, humanitarian and economic situation has become dreadful. isis is seizing territory and has now access to significant oil reserves. we know that the us is looking at military options for stopping isis advances. at the european union level we have been supporting libya primarily with humanitarian aid and by assisting the political process that will lead to a unity government. libyans want this agreement to succeed; after five brutal years, they must see some hope. only a government of national accord can stabilise libya. the house of representatives in libya needs to ensure that, although not perfect, the agreement on a unity government needs to be endorsed so that libya’s situation does not become hopeless. the eu should continue providing the necessary humanitarian and development assistance. we must not allow any other libyan military leader to hijack the political process. libyans do not need another gaddafi.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i would like to thank the dutch presidency, both for staying here and being involved this marathon session, and also for the encouraging reply and for the ‘yes, yes, yes’. of course, what we now want is for you to ‘do, do, do’. that is the next stage. i am sure that the council is very aware of the socialist position on isds. we reject the old bilateral investment treaties (bits), and we rejected the commission’s attempt to continue to use secret courts. in the long term, we are demanding a multilateral solution to investment disputes, but while we push for this, we strongly support bringing more transparency to existing isds provisions worldwide. we therefore welcome the mauritius convention at the un level on new minimum standards, which we believe apply to existing member states’ bits, as well as to the energy charter. the blockage in the council on progressing with this is unacceptable. i accept that it is not the presidency’s fault, but it is unacceptable. it is important to continue to clarify that investment is a european union competence. it is deeply regrettable that eight member states have unilaterally signed the convention without waiting for the authorisation of the union. this has shown to the outside world a divided and disorganised eu when we should be a strong voice internationally, defending the mauritius convention principles. it is also troubling to hear that, within the council, some member states do not support these transparency rules. the new uncitral rules are now the minimum standards for the eu, and the council should endorse them unanimously. we are calling for the council to authorise the union to sign the convention as soon as possible so that it can apply to the energy charter immediately. we also demand that all remaining member states, when authorised, sign the new rules to apply them to all their bilateral agreements. the union is now a world leader in reforming investment protection provision, but we can only do so effectively if the member states put institutional squabbles aside, recognise that this is an exclusive competence of the union, and allow the eu to move forward.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i would like to thank the minister for staying for the debate. this is a simple and straightforward issue. we talk a lot about transparency in this parliament, and we genuinely believe in it. but sometimes it is difficult to accept what we hear from the council, and that is certainly the case in this situation. it is difficult to accept that the council has not yet managed to resolve this existing impasse. i would like to be able to understand why this situation is continuing. i was going to ask you, of course, whether you were taking an active role, but you have already told us: yes. great news. so maybe i can ask you for a little bit more detail about exactly what you are doing, and maybe you could be just slightly more transparent about the negotiations within council as to how you are going to resolve this issue. obviously, it does affect the way that the world looks at the european union. it is regrettable that eight member states have had to unilaterally go forward, but i do not blame them: i think it gives the clear impression that they are getting a little impatient. so please, council, wake up and get on with agreeing this very sensible notion.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, trade should be about economic benefit, not politics. yet the eu uses trade to promote a political agenda, and that is exactly what it is trying with the mauritius convention. the eu is pressurising all member states to sign, so that the eu itself can sign and thereby serve its own interest of making isds a pillar of eu trade policy. the eu is carrying forward the assumption that isds is a legitimate system; it is not. it subverts national laws, and it has been rejected by two committees in this house for the ttip conventions negotiations. it is opposed by sizable numbers of meps, and still the commission wants to make it part of its trade negotiations and has already put it into the draft trade agreement with canada. we hear the words trotted around by the eu – ‘transparency’ and ‘investment court’– but these are surface changes that do nothing to alter what is an illegitimate and unnecessary system. trade commissioner malmström has stated that trade must support europe’s wider international goals. so long as they remain in the eu, member states have to barter their sovereignty for the interests of the eu, in trade policy as in anything else. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– can the member tell me how many bilateral investment treaties exist worldwide and how many the united kingdom has signed up for? and does he believe that they should all remain secret? because this is not about future investment treaties, this is about the existing investment treaties that, as the chair of the committee on international trade rightly pointed out, we know very little about, and this is already costing the taxpayer millions of pounds every year. (applause)
blue-card answer.– the answer is no. i doubt many people do. however, the fact remains that isds is being pushed in through the back door, and it is absolutely unacceptable. anybody who believes themselves to be working in the interests of ordinary people should know that and should accept that.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, it is okay for meps, with no responsibility or power, to sit here and say that we need an open door to limitless numbers of people. but people in the real world are being hurt. it has even been reported that the commission will not accept that there is any link between the migrant crisis and the sexual assaults in cologne and elsewhere. indeed, in the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) two weeks ago, a labour mep called me racist for saying that migrants and refugees were involved in the attacks. if it was your mother, your daughter or your friend, would you still deny that anything happened? this is what happens when you open the door to other countries and cultures that treat women as second-class citizens. then we have the attempted cover—ups by the police, the politicians and the press. to hear swedish police say they will not report what happened because it might benefit some political parties, and for a german politician to say that women should act differently in public, is disgraceful. the people we vote for and the authorities we expect to protect our safety are cynically turning their backs on ordinary women and men for the sake of political correctness. and what happens when the people who have committed these crimes get eu passports or are given nationality from eu countries? they will have the right to come to britain without any criminal background checks. in 2015, 100 000 illegal migrants were stopped trying to enter the uk. this shows the scale of the problem heading towards britain. but what happens if we look at the other side of this crisis? over 10 000 migrant children are missing. europol has said that these children and young people are being forced into sexual exploitation and slavery by criminal gangs. the international organisation for migration said it was to be expected that many of these will be caught up in exploitation. that is without mention of the thousands dead and missing in the mediterranean. so not only are these eu policies putting women under threat at home, they are also having horrendous consequences for women and children trying to seek safety. of course we must open our hearts and help innocent women and children, but this is not the way. for the eu to expand the meaning of the geneva convention through the qualification directive to mean anyone fleeing armed conflict has led to one million people arriving in europe in 2015, many turning to criminal gangs to get here. the eu free movement rules allow them to be trafficked all across europe, because there are no border controls and no criminal background checks between countries. free movement is a huge security risk, which was exploited in the paris terrorist attacks. weapons, criminals and terrorists can move freely around europe and attack public places, all thanks to the eu. the eu is putting women at direct risk, and clearly they cannot cope with this crisis. for the safety of our own women and men, for the sake of innocent victims, and for other countries, we must get control of our borders and we must leave the eu. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from terry reintke )
madam president, i join with colleagues in this chamber in condemning the attacks on women across europe on new year’s eve. however, harassment of women did not begin on 31 december 2015. indeed, just two months earlier there was the october beer festival, where hundreds of women reported sexual harassment. there appears not to have been quite so much concern about those women. equally, the fundamental rights agency reported in 2014 that one in three women have been the victim of violence of some sort. so harassment of women is not a new phenomenon. violence and discrimination in europe pre-date the events in cologne and elsewhere. i have condemned and will always condemn these actions and whoever perpetrates them, and i am proud that my colleagues and i have been promoting action to take practical steps to address this problem. however, in all the time i have been doing this, i have never seen some of those who are shouting the loudest now stand shoulder to shoulder with me fighting for women’s rights before. well, heaven rejoices at the repentance of sinners. i am somewhat sceptical at ukip and france’s national front’s conversion to the cause of women. i suspect them of trying to instil fear and hatred rather than trying to protect the victims. but perhaps those on the right will prove me wrong. perhaps they will now call for the uk government to ratify the istanbul convention with legally-based standards combating violence against women. i live in hope. in the meantime, let us take this moment to pursue policies that will protect women from experiencing harassment – whatever form it takes, and whoever the perpetrator. (applause)(the speaker declined to take a blue card question from marek jurek)
madam president, i would like to join with everybody here in condemning what happened in cologne – it was unacceptable. but i also would like to make the point that, yes, it is absolutely true that we have not just discovered violence against women. i would just like to reflect back on what i was doing about 40 years ago as a student in the ‘70s when we had a movement called ‘reclaim the night’. it was all about allowing women the space to go out on their own as they wished without harassment. i am talking about the uk. it was absolutely essential that we brought attention to this problem at that time, and at that time there was no so-called ‘islamisation of europe’. this was nothing to do with culture; it was british – english – culture and men were simply not letting women behave normally and have normal lives. it is deeply regrettable that we are still in that position now, and i hope that the cologne lesson can teach us that it is time that we got on with the real roots of this and changed life for women. (applause)
in writing.– scotland’s islands are some of our bonniest spots, but they face some of the toughest conditions in the country too, and not just thanks to the weather. there is much to be welcomed in this resolution, most particularly the call for an increase in digital connectivity for islands, better maritime access routes and better education opportunities. steps like these will help to reduce disparities between islands and the mainland, and maintain the population in areas where it is at risk. as this resolution illustrates so well, one size does not always fit all, and this is especially the case with europe’s islands: even just in scotland our islands face many different challenges and are extremely diverse places, let alone if you start to consider the differences with greek, italian or danish islands. this is why it is so vital that european laws reflect this diversity and make appropriate allowances for it. i hope this resolution demonstrates to the european commission that they must act on some of these very sensible suggestions in order to better help our island communities face the future and the challenges it will no doubt bring.
blue-card question.– thank you for taking the question, mr stuger. i notice you speak about the referendum in the netherlands and big business getting on the side of the ‘yes’ campaign. do you think that the people in the netherlands will actually take this referendum as a vote on the whole eu itself? also, as you know, we have a referendum coming up in the uk. would you have a message for the people of the uk as well?
mr president, i know that you, madam commissioner, are a fair and reasonable person, so i am going to highlight a problem that we have, and there may be a way that you can help us and show your own personal fairness to my region. the first problem we have is that in my region of the west midlands of the united kingdom we are being forced into a combined authority, which is actually designed entirely around getting loans and funding from the eu. it is being done behind closed doors, it is being done in a dishonourable way, and the people have not had a chance to vote on it. this gives a bad reputation to the eu and to the whole idea of city regions and authorities. however, madam commissioner, there is an opportunity for you to show your personal honourable nature. there is an issue in the west midlands where we need help from regional funding, and after all the uk does contribute far more to the eu than we ever get out. it would be wonderful if you could come and have a look at the region with me. in particular i would like to raise with you the issue of dudley hippodrome, which requires funding to get it back off the ground. it is a matter of culture, it is a matter of arts, and it would be very good for the local economy in an area that has suffered recently. so thank you for listening, madam commissioner. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– the people from my area in the west midlands do not understand the concept of regional development; they do not understand that it is all part of ‘cohesion’ and to make for easier european governance. what they do feel is that they want to be freer; they do feel, because they voted in large numbers for my party and always do, that the eu is not necessarily helpful to them. the hardships that have been suffered in my area, with unemployment and with wages being driven down by uncontrolled immigration, have caused the people of my area to feel very bitter towards the eu. they want change and they want to be free.
madam president, following russia’s forceful and illegal annexation of crimea in 2014, the peninsula’s tatar population and ukrainian minority have suffered a marked deterioration in civil and political liberties and other fundamental human rights. the tatars’ very principled boycott of the imposed regime’s 2014 bogus referendum on russian rule has exacerbated the historical enmity between crimean tatars and moscow dating right back to stalin’s brutal programme of tatar deportation in the 1940s. consequently, tatar political leaders have been exiled, media outlets suppressed and tatar public commemorations prohibited. reports suggest that unlawful arrest and detention are becoming increasingly commonplace in the peninsula. the human rights situation in crimea, therefore, remains extremely troubling. i unequivocally condemn russia’s annexation of crimea, which legally still belongs to ukraine, and urge the de-facto authorities to respect the fundamental tenets of human rights in their dealings with the tatars. the eu and the international community are watching very closely.
author.– madam president, there has been genuinely good cooperation across the house in the production of this really very solid resolution and, bluntly, i would hope so too. if we cannot unite on something like opposition to the death penalty, i do not think there is much hope for us. there are those in bahrain who do feel that we focus too much upon the kingdom; we criticise too much the lack of progress in bahrain that we have seen in parts, and since there are other abuses in the region, why not focus upon them? firstly, we do focus on other abuses in the neighbouring countries in the wider region, and secondly, in many ways it is a compliment, because there is a feeling within this house that there is scope for a dialogue with bahrain that is actually going somewhere. there is actually a process towards reform that we can assist, and there are useful discussions to be had. it is important that we recognise the progress that bahrain has made in a reform programme. there has been institutional reform; we have seen steps towards an independent judiciary; we have seen the establishment of ombudsmen; we have seen the establishment of the prisoners’ rights commission and the special investigations unit; and there have been a number of declarations which have been really very positive. but that progress has stalled, and we need to see that progress continue. we can assist in that process by being vocal in our criticism but also constructive in our willingness to help. we must be vocal about our criticism of the sentencing to death of mr ramadan along with nine other individuals presently on death row within the kingdom, and i hope we will be unanimous in our condemnation of those sentences. i would also, in a very solid resolution, pick out in particular paragraph 3: ‘stresses the obligation to ensure that human rights defenders are protected and allowed to conduct their work without hindrance, intimidation or harassment’. internal dialogue within bahrain is vital for underpinning progress. we can assist with that process, and i hope we will unite around this resolution today.
author.– madam president, there are clearly legitimate concerns surrounding the arrest and trial of mohammed ramadan, and my group calls on the bahraini authorities – and his majesty in particular – to carry out a full investigation into the allegations of torture, suspending any convictions, particularly the death penalty, until this process has taken place, and to review the sentences where appropriate, following the conclusions that have been made. nevertheless, the proposed joint text today, in our view, is far too strong in its general condemnation of this fragile island state, which is making huge efforts to improve its governance and human rights situation, for us to support it and to sign it. it fails to recognise the security risks that bahrain faces, including external interference by neighbouring iran. my country, the united kingdom, has a tradition of strong ties with the kingdom of bahrain, dating right back to the foundation of the modern state – when it was its initial protector – to today, when construction is commencing on a royal navy base, as agreed between united kingdom and bahrain in 2014, which serves to remind us of the close security ties we have and the important role that bahrain and its tolerant, multi-confessional state plays in the region’s security.
madam president, i would like to express my heartfelt solidarity with mohammed ramadan and with his family and loved ones. it is the responsibility of all conscientious citizens in this world to stand up against arbitrary arrest, brutal torture and the death penalty, no matter where they take place. i also wish to use this opportunity to speak about the unfounded arrest and ill treatment of children in bahrain: 237 cases of children detained by bahraini authorities were reported in 2015 alone. many are subject to ill treatment and beatings and made to confess to crimes they did not commit. the cases most recently reported are those of: sayyid ali abbas mohammed, the brothers jassem and hassan mohammed hassan, fadhel mohammed hassan, sayyid fadhel saeed shams and sayyid mohammed hashem – all teenagers who have been arrested in recent months who must be returned safe and sound to their families. in 2013 this parliament issued a resolution calling on bahrain to apply the convention on the rights of the child, to which it is a party. i would like to reissue that call here: the bahraini authorities must release mohammed ramadan and all child prisoners.
mr president, i chaired the negotiations on this resolution, which is on the plenary agenda at the request of my group. in discussion between the s&d group and the epp group, we will jointly be supporting a postponement. it is just for two weeks. there is a humanitarian catastrophe in yemen. we want this parliament to resolve its position, but there is a very important delegation of the foreign affairs committee this weekend, and we believe our influence to implement what we believe in will be maximised by delaying this vote. there are some that are trying to suggest that the postponement is part of a plot to undermine a strong parliament position. i am delighted that we have that position, and i am in fact very grateful that the epp has signed up to the joint text, which i know they were unable to commit to at the meeting. they have now done so. so there are no plots, but this is the best way to influence what we believe in.
mr president, i have much respect for the rapporteurs, but we do not agree to this postponement. the situation in yemen is grave. we have been working on this resolution for a long time. there is a majority in this house to take a strong and progressive position on an urgent conflict where people are dying on a daily basis. there is no good reason why we should delay this. the resolution is good to go now. we have a majority in this house for a strong and progressive position. there is no good reason to delay it. i hope we vote on it today.
mr president, is this place supposed to be a student union debating society or is it a parliament? i am speaking about a couple of matters. we have had that oral agreement with the epp and alde groups where the text of the report is changed at the very last minute, so the rest of us do not actually have a clue exactly what the text is that we are voting on. but more seriously, on the humanitarian situation in yemen, when we see two political groups, with a carve-up between the epp and the s&d, deciding that something is going to be delayed for a couple of weeks. they do not give us a proper explanation. they just force it through by weight of vote. seriously, this is not what democracy is all about, and it is high time that we learned what it is in this place.
mr president, the problem was that it was not clear what it was we were supposed to be voting on or not voting on. i did not know whether i objected to it or not. we did not know what it was.
mr president, ukraine has had more than its portion of human suffering. in a new history of that vast country, serhii plokhii makes the argument that, between 1932 when stalin began the famine and 1944 when the last of the nazi troops left, it was the most dangerous place in the world to be a human being. even by the standards of that troubled and turbulent country, the crimean tatars have suffered particularly. i had meetings with a number of their leaders when i was last in ukraine, and they told me the same things that are detailed in this report – the human rights abuses, the restrictions on free speech, free assembly, free religion and all the rest of it. how much this house can intervene in a distant land is a separate question, but at least let us be clear whose side we are on, where our sympathy lies. i hope that some of the colleagues in this chamber who have been making excuses for the putinite aggression will look at who it is that they are lining up with.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against. however, we recognise the importance of information sharing for british policing and are supportive of such measures, with appropriate safeguards, on a bilateral basis.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against. however, we recognise the importance of information sharing for british policing and are supportive of such measures, with appropriate safeguards, on a bilateral basis.
in writing. – i abstained on this resolution, which contained both positive and negative elements. this resolution of the european parliament is a follow-up to the commission’s progress report on the serbian eu integration agenda. it welcomes the progress in the accession negotiations, but emphasises that many problems remain. there are positive elements urging progressive reforms in serbia on human rights issues (such as protection of minorities), regional cooperation with neighbouring countries (on missing persons, war crimes prosecution, normalisation of relations with kosovo), the rule of law and on the civil society sector. the points in the resolution that i object to related to promoting the eu’s right-wing agenda on economic governance, structural reforms, labour market reform and privatisation, as well as calling for serbia to align its foreign and security policy with the eu’s. while there were many aspects of the resolution that i welcome – particularly the progress on normalisation of relations with kosovo – there were too many problematic aspects for me to fully support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe in serbian accession to the european union. this progress report works towards that goal; therefore, i had no choice but to vote against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against. however, we recognise the importance of information sharing for british policing and are supportive of such measures, with appropriate safeguards, on a bilateral basis.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against. however, we recognise the importance of information sharing for british policing and are supportive of such measures, with appropriate safeguards, on a bilateral basis.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against. however, we recognise the importance of information sharing for british policing and are supportive of such measures, with appropriate safeguards, on a bilateral basis.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report by mr mcallister, which is a useful assessment of ongoing reforms in serbia, including in important areas such as the rule of law, democracy, human rights, respect for minorities and regional cooperation. it rightly recognises that serbia has embarked on an ambitious reform agenda. we in britain support the ongoing efforts to ensure that eu applicant countries fulfil the criteria for eu membership and very much welcome all efforts to secure peace and stability in the western balkans. so, for these reasons, i am happy to support this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this resolution which calls on serbia to pursue its systematic reforms, ensure that the work of judges and prosecutors, as well as that of the media, is free from political influence, and step up its efforts to fight corruption and organised crime. it furthermore is important to acknowledge that serbia has taken important steps in the normalisation of relations with kosovo, which is vital for safeguarding peace and stability in the region. the eu can play an important role in encouraging both countries to continue on this path.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as it welcomes the opening of the eu accession negotiations and calls on serbia to pursue its systematic reforms, ensure that the work of judges and prosecutors, as well as that of the media, is free from political influence and step up its efforts to fight corruption and organised crime.
in writing. – i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report with my fellow ukip employees. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such i voted against. however, we recognise the importance of information sharing for british policing and are supportive of such measures, with appropriate safeguards, on a bilateral basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as it welcomes the opening of the eu accession negotiations and calls on serbia to pursue its systematic reforms, ensure that the work of judges and prosecutors, as well as that of the media, is free from political influence and step up its efforts to fight corruption and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, which ‘stresses the importance of the work of civil society organisations in a democratic society; notes that cooperation between the government and civil society organisations has improved; encourages the serbian authorities to take additional measures to ensure a transparent dialogue between civil society and state institutions, and to increase the effective involvement of representatives of civil society and of national minorities in the decision-making process; calls on the authorities to guarantee adequate financial support for the efficient functioning of civil society organisations; calls for timely and transparent communication to citizens, organisations and the general public on the developments of the accession negotiation process and to facilitate their broad participation in this process’.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against. however, we recognise the importance of information sharing for british policing and are supportive of such measures, with appropriate safeguards, on a bilateral basis.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against. however, we recognise the importance of information sharing for british policing and are supportive of such measures, with appropriate safeguards, on a bilateral basis.
in writing. ‒ this is still the initial stages of what is an incredibly long process, which i don’t suspect is going to be concluded for some time to come. it has been well documented that conditionality pressure from the eu has massive benefits for the development of democratic institutions and in the fight against corruption. but, of course this is not a linear process, and in a time of increasing populism around europe, knock-backs will happen. indeed, this report adds to this pressure by drawing attention to problems in the country, such as media freedom, deteriorating conditions for freedom of expression, lack of transparency in the funding of political parties and election campaigns, and calls on serbia to make further efforts to improve the situation of their political institutions.
in writing. ‒ i was satisfied to vote in favour of the 2015 progress report on serbia. i fully support the proper integration of serbia into the european family, and it is vital that serbia continues to carry forward its ambitious reform agenda. strengthening the rule of law, fighting corruption and providing a better standard of life for everyday serbians will help not only serbia, but the balkans and by extension the rest of the europe. for serbia the process of integration is the best way to improve both the country's economic situation and building political stability.
mr president, i am now back on the right page. there was an item that caught my eye as being extraordinary, even by the standards that i have come to expect from eu institutions. this was the revelation of a massive corruption scandal in kosovo involving the eu’s anti-corruption unit. why is it that corruption is endemic in that territory, or at least in its administration? i would say for the same reason that it is endemic in the european union. not because it attracts bad people – not even mr brok is a bad person. he is a loud and oafish person, as we see from his current interruption, but i am prepared to give him the benefit of the doubt. but no, it is not that it attracts bad people: it is that there are no proper mechanisms to hold people to account. if people in positions of authority do not need to explain themselves to voters, they will focus on making themselves comfortable. kosovo is not allowed to be a democracy because people fear partition. they do not want any recognition of the national principles, so they impose an undemocratic government which is then, inevitably, self-serving. that is what happens. of course, we see the same principle elevated at european level, and it allows even such characters as elmar brok to get themselves elected.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – i abstained on this resolution. i oppose many aspects of the report such as the call for kosovo to align its economic and foreign policy with that of the eu and the promotion of the eulex mission – which is developing what is essentially a colonial role for the eu in kosovo’s governance. however, i strongly support the right of the people of kosovo to self-determination, and this report recognises the declaration of independence from serbia by kosovo in 2008, so i did not want to block it. i support the right of an independent kosovo to become part of the european union. kosovo has a long history of more than 100 years where its majority population struggled for an independent state, a fact that arises from the drawing of borders after the fall of the ottoman empire, and which was ignored during the break-up of the former yugoslavia when bosnia-herzegovina, croatia and serbia achieved independent status. this report also supports progressive reforms in kosovo on human rights, judicial independence, and the importance of the rule of law. it calls for increased efforts to tackle human and drug trafficking and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe in kosovan accession to the european union. this report works towards that goal; therefore, i had no choice but to vote against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for swift and comprehensive implementation of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement signed in october 2015. as a country in the western balkans, the future of kosovo is inextricably linked to that of the eu. therefore it is of crucial importance to implement the reforms called for under the saa, particularly with regard to ensuring media and judiciary independence, fighting high-level corruption and organised crime and implementing labour market reforms. it is important to note that kosovo authorities have undertaken important efforts to end the trend of irregular migration, which peaked at the beginning of 2015. now it is crucial to ensure that short-term measures aimed at dissuading the population from leaving are accompanied by job creation in order to encourage citizens to stay in kosovo and build a future in their country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as i strongly support the european integration process of kosovo. kosovo’s authorities have to pursue the necessary reforms with commitment, and strengthen the rule of law, the fight against corruption, discrimination, unemployment, and structural economic reforms for the benefit of citizens.
in writing. – my colleagues and i at ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as i strongly support the european integration process of kosovo. kosovo's authorities have to pursue the necessary reforms with commitment, and strengthen the rule of law, the fight against corruption, discrimination, unemployment, and structural economic reforms for the benefit of citizens.
in writing. ‒ in voting for this resolution i note that five member states have not formally recognised kosovo.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the european integration process of kosovo. the public authorities of kosovo must develop on their reforms and strengthen their commitment to strengthening the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime. the report does point out some of the major political issues, principally the fact that five of the 28 eu member states don’t actually recognise the republic of kosovo while such recognition would most definitely strengthen stability in the region and normalise relations between serbia and kosovo.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo. apart from enhancing political dialogue and opening new forms of cooperation, the agreement will create opportunities to enhance contact between people, which is no less essential to the bringing down of barriers than cooperation between experts and governments. citizens and civil society must be included in the process of implementation of the agreement, and citizens must be informed about the process in a transparent manner. i deeply believe that more consideration must be given to the power of civil society to pursue inter-cultural exchange, people-to-people dialogue, and initiatives bringing together citizens from eu member states and kosovo. the eu can be a key player in this kind of exchange: able to share, support and develop best practice, particularly in respect of young people. kosovan youth are the promise of its future: they are the ones who stand to gain from the ongoing dialogue. a young generation of kosovars have grown up with a european vision. they must not be let down.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is supportive of the un backed plan to return libya to stable and democratic governance and hopes that all sides will fulfil their obligations under the agreement. however we do not support the eu's attempts to get involved in libya and expand their foreign policy role. we are also mindful of the situation in libya's impact on the current migration crisis. as such we abstained on the resolution as whole.
in writing. – ukip voted to abstain on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is supportive of the un-backed plan to return libya to stable and democratic governance and hopes that all sides will fulfil their obligations under the agreement. however we do not support the eu’s attempts to get involved in libya and expand their foreign policy role. we are also mindful of the situation of libya’s impact on the current migration crisis. as such we abstained on the resolution as whole.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the final vote due to excessive calls for european union action as opposed to action by the member states. i do recognise the need for co-operation between nations on this issue, but the appropriate vehicle for this would be nato.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is supportive of the un backed plan to return libya to stable and democratic governance and hopes that all sides will fulfil their obligations under the agreement. however we do not support the eu's attempts to get involved in libya and expand their foreign policy role. we are also mindful of the situation in libya's impact on the current migration crisis. as such we abstained on the resolution as whole.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is supportive of the un backed plan to return libya to stable and democratic governance and hopes that all sides will fulfil their obligations under the agreement. however we do not support the eu's attempts to get involved in libya and expand their foreign policy role. we are also mindful of the situation in libya's impact on the current migration crisis. as such we abstained on the resolution as whole.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is supportive of the un backed plan to return libya to stable and democratic governance and hopes that all sides will fulfil their obligations under the agreement. however we do not support the eu's attempts to get involved in libya and expand their foreign policy role. we are also mindful of the situation in libya's impact on the current migration crisis. as such we abstained on the resolution as whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution urging all stakeholders in libya, the region and the international community to move the libyan political transition forward. we cannot afford any further delay in implementing the libyan political agreement and establishing a government of national accord. there is an urgent need to start reforming and building state institutions, consolidating the rule of law, improving the human rights situation and tackling human trafficking. it is deeply concerning that libya has become home to the largest daesh forces outside of the middle east and forms a daesh bridgehead on the mediterranean south coast, posing a major threat to neighbouring countries in the sahel and sahara, as well as to europe. we will not be able to tackle this unless a stable, inclusive government is put into place that receives full support from the international community and upholds high standards on human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution. time is running out to stabilise libya. the security, humanitarian and economic situation has become dreadful. isis is rapidly seizing territory and now has access to significant oil reserves. although not perfect, the agreement on unity government must be upheld, so that libya’s situation does not become hopeless. the eu should continue providing the necessary humanitarian and development assistance.
in writing. – my ukip colleagues and myself voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is supportive of the un backed plan to return libya to stable and democratic governance and hopes that all sides will fulfil their obligations under the agreement. however we do not support the eu's attempts to get involved in libya and expand their foreign policy role. we are also mindful of the situation in libya's impact on the current migration crisis. as such i abstained on the resolution as whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution. time is running out to stabilize libya. the security, humanitarian and economic situation has become dreadful. isis is rapidly seizing territory and has now access to significant oil reserves. although not perfect, the agreement on unity government must be upheld, so that libya’s situation does not become hopeless. the eu should continue providing the necessary humanitarian and development assistance.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this resolution, which ‘regrets the on-going proxy war between foreign sunni parties; calls on regional players to refrain from actions which might exacerbate divisions and undermine the transition to a stable, inclusive and democratic libya, and which might destabilise neighbouring countries; upholds its strong commitment to libya’s sovereignty, territorial integrity, national unity and democratic transition’.
in writing. – ukip voted to abstain on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is supportive of the un-backed plan to return libya to stable and democratic governance and hopes that all sides will fulfil their obligations under the agreement. however we do not support the eu’s attempts to get involved in libya and expand their foreign policy role. we are also mindful of the situation of libya’s impact on the current migration crisis. as such we abstained on the resolution as whole.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is supportive of the un backed plan to return libya to stable and democratic governance and hopes that all sides will fulfil their obligations under the agreement. however we do not support the eu's attempts to get involved in libya and expand their foreign policy role. we are also mindful of the situation in libya's impact on the current migration crisis. as such we abstained on the resolution as whole.
in writing. ‒ i, and labour’s sister parties in the s&d group, welcome the signature of the libyan political agreement (lpa) to form a government of national accord as the sole and legitimate government of libya. i join in the invitation for the house of representatives and its presidency to show a spirit of compromise and convene to discuss the proposed cabinet with a view to endorsing the government of national accord. one of the principle advantages of such an agreement is that it will provide the necessary mechanisms to tackle the issues that come with reforming and actually building state institutions, but also being involved in the fight against terrorism, reaching part of the solution to the problems that are affecting that region at the moment.
in writing. ‒ i share in my colleagues’ concern regarding the situation of asylum seekers and refugees coming from libya and north africa, and i support this resolution’s call for more action to be taken by the libyan authorities, european member states and the eeas to address the resulting humanitarian needs and the need for safety. i wish to emphasise that refugees and asylum seekers on their way to or arriving in europe must be treated humanely, with their dignity respected and their needs addressed. i call on the libyan and european authorities alike to ensure the facilities and services provided to take in refugees, asylum seekers and migrants meet these standards.
mr president, island communities in europe play a unique and vital role, and it is imperative that we recognise and support them. on sustainable energy resources, island communities have huge potential. if europe is to meet its sustainability targets, we must help our islands to harness this potential. scottish islands, with the biggest coastal exposure to the atlantic in the uk, have some of the best renewable energy opportunities in the world. on education: access, especially to further education and higher education, is vital. scotland is lucky to be the home of our newest university, the university of the highlands and islands, which is leading in delivering education remotely, attracting huge global interest. this leads me to my final point on digital access: we debate in this chamber about the importance of the digital single market. we must ensure that our island communities have access to superfast broadband, so that they too can enjoy this digital revolution that we are all enjoying at the moment. i am proud to represent and support the scottish island communities.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as a party we are against the eu dictating the regional and economic plans for islands that belong to member states, it's the individual nation's responsibility to create regional schemes for their islands.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. as a party we are against the eu dictating the regional and economic plans for islands that belong to member states; it is the individual nation’s responsibility to create regional schemes for their islands.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this motion, which was put forward by the committee for regional development, which looks at the specific and unique needs of islands in europe. it looks at ways to meet those needs in order to ensure sustainable development and integration by better targeted use of eu policy to ensure economic viability, the supply of necessary public services and better connectivity and accessibility of islands with nearby regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is about the european union dictating the regional economic plans for islands belonging to member states. as i oppose the esif, it is natural for me to vote against. i note that the eurostat definition of an ‘island’ means that great britain is not classified as an island. i am highly tempted to invite them to walk over and discuss the matter.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as a party we are against the eu dictating the regional and economic plans for islands that belong to member states, it's the individual nation's responsibility to create regional schemes for their islands.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as a party we are against the eu dictating the regional and economic plans for islands that belong to member states, it's the individual nation's responsibility to create regional schemes for their islands.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as a party we are against the eu dictating the regional and economic plans for islands that belong to member states, it's the individual nation's responsibility to create regional schemes for their islands.
in writing. ‒ i support the overall policy aims of the european regional policy of supporting less developed areas. however, i feel i have to abstain on this motion as the calls in the resolution for a new eu agenda, a new framework and additional white papers and studies that could open the door to additional financial support being pumped into this area. in the current challenging times where national governments are having to cut expenditure and bring down deficits across europe, it would not be responsible to call for additional money to be allocated.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which underlines that island regions have common and specific characteristics and features that clearly distinguish them from mainland regions, such as certain permanent handicaps which require particular attention. it is vital that the commission takes account of these characteristics when developing instruments and resources in the framework of the cohesion policy to tackle the handicaps arising from the insularity.
in writing. – my fellow ukip colleagues and i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. as a party we are against the eu dictating the regional and economic plans for islands that belong to member states, it's the individual nation's responsibility to create regional schemes for their islands.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this resolution, which ‘calls on the commission to submit a communication containing an “agenda for eu islands” and, subsequently, a white paper to monitor the development of islands, based on best practice and involving local, regional and national authorities and other relevant actors, including economic and social partners and representatives of civil society’.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. as a party we are against the eu dictating the regional and economic plans for islands that belong to member states; it is the individual nation’s responsibility to create regional schemes for their islands.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as a party we are against the eu dictating the regional and economic plans for islands that belong to member states, it's the individual nation's responsibility to create regional schemes for their islands.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted in favour of this resolution because european islands contribute to the diversity of the union in both environmental terms (specific habitats and endemic species) and cultural terms (languages, architectural heritage, sites, landscapes, agricultural and non-agricultural features and geographical identities). this resolution also helps european islands to strengthen sustainable development in the union, given their high potential for producing energy from renewable sources due to specific exposure to wind streams, ocean swell and sunlight.
mr president, local and regional authorities play a pivotal role in the delivery of public services across europe. they are closest to local communities and are an asset which must be protected. it is with this in mind that i find myself disheartened by the current treatment of local authorities in scotland where, under the scottish nationalist—led government, funding of local authorities is being slashed. the convention of scottish local authorities is currently resisting a budget cut by the scottish government of gbp 500 million. yesterday in the scottish parliament we saw that the government failed to support labour proposals to address the funding shortfall, and vital frontline services will suffer due to the snp’s austerity budget. we are already seeing slipping standards before this gbp 500 million cut comes into place, with 6 000 children leaving school in scotland unable to read properly. our children are our future, and the snp is failing too many of scotland’s children. the importance of the role of local authorities cannot be underplayed.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. as a party we are against the eu deciding where to invest when that decision should be the preserve of member states. on that point of principle we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. as a party we are against the eu deciding where to invest when that decision should be the preserve of member states. on that point of principle we voted against.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this motion, which was put forward by the committee for regional development. it highlights the importance of community-led and directed allocation of structural funds, in particular the importance of using initiatives such as community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investments (iti) to better combine funding streams, target local initiatives and ensure a bottom-up, grass-roots approach across multiple levels of governance.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for the increased involvement of local and regional investment funds in the esif. as i oppose the esif, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. as a party we are against the eu deciding where to invest when that decision should be the preserve of member states. on that point of principle we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. as a party we are against the eu deciding where to invest when that decision should be the preserve of member states. on that point of principle we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. as a party we are against the eu deciding where to invest when that decision should be the preserve of member states. on that point of principle we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this resolution, which rightly focuses on the good position local and regional authorities are in to assist in the use of european structural and investment funds due to their local knowledge. the resolution is also accurate in its attention to the many challenges facing eu local and regional authorities, from energy security to administrative capacity, red tape and complexity in public procurement. in some member states there is a real need to tackle structural weaknesses to increase the absorption rate of esi funds, and thus improve the value for money to taxpayers of these investments, whilst at the same time ensuring subsidiarity is respected.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which calls attention to the fact that local and regional authorities are instrumental to the functioning of the european structural and investment funds, as they are close to citizens and best understand their needs. therefore it is important that the commission provides support to regional and local authorities in order to strengthen their role and impact in managing esi funds, with the aim of creating economic growth and sustainable jobs.
in writing. ‒ with my socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of this resolution because smart cities and smart specialisation strategies are two innovations that have been quickly taken on board by policymakers and translated into specific eu policies or initiatives. moreover, the eu ministers’ agreement on the riga 2015 declaration paved the way for an eu urban agenda, which is now expected to lead to the ‘pact of amsterdam’. the latter is a future-oriented programme in which the participation of european cities is a central element, and through which the dutch council presidency of 2016 aims to establish a bottom-up approach.
in writing. – my ukip colleagues and i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. as a party we are against the eu deciding where to invest when that decision should be the preserve of member states. on that point of principle i voted against.
in writing. ‒ local and regional authorities play a very important role within the framework of the european structural and investment funds as they are close to citizens and best understand their needs. i voted in favour of the report, as it calls to strengthen their role and impact in managing eu funds, with the aim of creating economic growth and sustainable jobs.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the importance of the community-led local development initiative, in which local authorities are partners, and underlines that it should remain a bottom-up approach while establishing objectives for interventions related to local and regional needs.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. as a party we are against the eu deciding where to invest when that decision should be the preserve of member states. on that point of principle we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. as a party we are against the eu deciding where to invest when that decision should be the preserve of member states. on that point of principle we voted against.
in writing. ‒ in my view, local and regional authorities play a very important role within the framework of the european structural and investment funds because they are the closest institutions to the citizens and, as such, understand their needs the best. local and regional authorities have limited means to support the local population, and by increasing the role of the local and regional authorities in this way the citizens will benefit most from the esif, and i welcome the agreement on the text that was made at the regi committee by the democratic political groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which focuses on measures to support and strengthen the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment (esi) funds. it rightly highlights the importance of local knowledge in achieving overarching cohesion goals and delivering well-targeted local investment initiatives.
in writing. ‒ with my socialists colleagues, i voted in favour of this resolution because smart cities and smart specialisation strategies are two innovations that have been quickly taken on board by policymakers and translated into specific eu policies or initiatives. moreover, the eu ministers’ agreement on the riga 2015 declaration paved the way for an eu urban agenda, which is now expected to lead to the ‘pact of amsterdam’. the latter is a future-oriented programme in which the participation of european cities is a central element, and through which the dutch council presidency of 2016 aims to establish a bottom-up approach.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue, so we voted against this particular amendment. overall we abstained.
in writing. – ukip voted to abstain on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue, so we voted against this particular amendment. overall we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i opposed any delays to this report as i feel that the reasoning was inappropriate. i wish to clarify, however, that i wished to abstain on the joint motion for a resolution, as i object to much of the content whilst agreeing with the broad sentiment.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue, so we voted against this particular amendment. overall we abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue, so we voted against this particular amendment. overall we abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue, so we voted against this particular amendment. overall we abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is of crucial importance that the deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen is urgently addressed. civilians are suffering from food insecurity and severe malnutrition, indiscriminate attacks, including against medical and aid workers, and the destruction of civilian and medical infrastructure as a result of the intensification of airstrikes by the saudi-led coalition and ground fighting and shelling. talks including stakeholders from yemen, the wider region and the international community have to be convened urgently in order to find a sustainable solution to the conflict.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution as i strongly believe that the eu can and must uphold international humanitarian law. the resolution highlights that some eu member states have continued to authorise transfers of weapons to saudi arabia in clear violation of the eu common position, despite evidence that these weapons have been used to commit human rights abuses in yemen. together with other meps, we have also raised this issue directly with the vice president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy in a written question and i welcome the adoption of a resolution on the matter as an additional means to build up pressure on the commission and the european external action service.
in writing. – my fellow ukip colleagues and i voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue, so i voted against this particular amendment. overall i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution with its call on all parties to respect the human rights and freedoms of all yemeni citizens and of all those working on peace and humanitarian missions in the country, including aid workers, doctors and journalists.
in writing. – ukip voted to abstain on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue, so we voted against this particular amendment. overall we abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue, so we voted against this particular amendment. overall we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the humanitarian situation in yemen has deteriorated and the plight of those trapped in the conflict is shocking, with the most vulnerable bearing the brunt of its brutal reality. malnutrition, lack of healthcare and no access to education will affect child victims for the rest of their lives. this conflict is yet another proxy war between iran and saudi arabia, in an enormously complex and fragmented region. as usual, it is the most vulnerable who suffer in the crossfire, as both sides violate international humanitarian law. i have been in close contact with an ethiopian ogadeni journalist trapped in yemen and receive frequent alerts about the situation on the ground for innocent civilians. the international community, the eu and its member states individually, must put pressure on saudi arabia, gulf states and iran to make sure that they respect humanitarian law and do not kill or harm civilians. european member states and other countries must ensure that they do not sell arms that end up targeting civilians in violation of international laws of conflict.
mr president, i supported this resolution for the reasons already mentioned by my colleagues. if the so-called islamic state is not a state, it is a terrorist group, so it is good that we have identified and clearly described that the actions of this group meet the characteristics of the most serious crimes that humanity has identified since world war ii, and that is the crime of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. it's good for the stage where the islamic state is defeated and it's possible to start trying its leaders before the international criminal court. that's the one position. the second thing that i welcome is there are a whole range of specific things that we condemn, like the destruction of cultural wealth and heritage. we are very clear that those who trade in this and help the islamic state to obtain illegal money, should be punished. i think that's important for individual member countries, because if isis didn't have a market for these cultural heritage items, they couldn't trade them.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is extremely concerned about the persecution of religious minorities by isis. ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report, given the resolutions lack of calls for eu action, aside from §10's call for the establishment of an eu permanent special representative to which we voted against, we voted for the resolution as a whole.
in writing. – ukip is extremely concerned about the persecution of religious minorities by isis. given the resolution’s lack of calls for eu action (aside from §10’s call for the establishment of an eu permanent special representative, which we voted against), we voted for the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ this was not the subject of a roll-call vote. in the interests of democracy, i wish to point out that i voted in favour of this report, although i specifically disagree with the original text in certain areas, not least with paragraph 10.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is extremely concerned about the persecution of religious minorities by isis. ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report, given the resolutions lack of calls for eu action, aside from §10's call for the establishment of an eu permanent special representative to which we voted against, we voted for the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is extremely concerned about the persecution of religious minorities by isis. ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report, given the resolutions lack of calls for eu action, aside from §10's call for the establishment of an eu permanent special representative to which we voted against, we voted for the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is extremely concerned about the persecution of religious minorities by isis. ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report, given the resolutions lack of calls for eu action, aside from §10's call for the establishment of an eu permanent special representative to which we voted against, we voted for the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution. daesh has been systematically killing, torturing, kidnapping and sexually enslaving members of minority groups, including christians and yazidis, in iraq and syria. only last month, 400 people were killed or kidnapped by them in syria. it was also confirmed that the oldest christian monastery in iraq was razed to the ground. but we should also have other areas – like pakistan and afghanistan, where the taliban have been rebranding into daesh – on our radar. the eu and the un must take urgent action to protect the shias, sikhs, hindus, muslims, christians and other minority groups there from extremist attacks. my west midlands colleague rob flello mp has been pressing the uk government to call on the un to treat the daesh atrocities against religious minorities as genocide. i urge the high representative to back this initiative. many voices at the un speak louder than one, and this will help send a clear message to members of daesh that they will face justice for the atrocities that they are committing now.
in writing. ‒ the persecution of christians, yazidis and any muslim not supporting the so-called ‘salafi movement’ is not acceptable, and this terrorist group should be held accountable for these actions. i must also add that the oppression of lgbti individuals is massively upsetting and the brutality that they have suffered should be reflected in this resolution.
in writing. – ukip is extremely concerned about the persecution of religious minorities by isis. given the resolution’s lack of calls for eu action, aside from point 10’s call for the establishment of an eu permanent special representative which we voted against, we voted for the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as everyone has a right to fundamental freedoms and respect of their human rights, regardless of their beliefs or ethnicity. it is our duty to stand in solidarity with the oppressed. whether in europe or the middle east, communities are stronger when they work together to combat terrorist propaganda and to administer programmes that celebrate diversity and empower minorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, which ‘urges the members of the un security council to support a referral by the security council to the international criminal court in order to investigate violations committed in iraq and syria by the so-called ‘isis/daesh’ against christians, yazidis and religious and ethnic minorities’.
in writing. – ukip is extremely concerned about the persecution of religious minorities by isis. given the resolution’s lack of calls for eu action (aside from §10’s call for the establishment of an eu permanent special representative, which we voted against), we voted for the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is extremely concerned about the persecution of religious minorities by isis. ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report, given the resolutions lack of calls for eu action, aside from §10's call for the establishment of an eu permanent special representative to which we voted against, we voted for the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the persecution of christians, yazidis and any muslim not supporting the so-called ‘salafi movement’ is not acceptable, and this terrorist group should be held accountable for these actions. i must also add that the oppression of lgbti individuals is massively upsetting and the brutality that they’ve suffered should be reflected in this resolution.
in writing. ‒ it is important for the international community to recognise the extent of the horrors committed by daesh, and much more must be done in order to cut off daesh’s funding. the eu and un must take action in order to put pressure on turkey, saudi arabia, and the gulf states to cut off daesh’s funds. however, the resolution does not address the plight of the hundreds of thousands of refugees who have escaped daesh’s brutality. thousands of vulnerable women, children, and men have made their way to europe. 10 000 refugee children have disappeared, most likely abducted and trafficked, while moving across europe. many thousands more are in makeshift camps, such as those in calais or dunkirk, lacking basic services, surviving in inhumane conditions. member states must do much more to alleviate the suffering of these refugees and take collective action, sharing responsibility instead of shying away from the problem.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, in the ever-lucid words of the bismarcks of the 21st century – the european union’s bureaucrats – ‘macro-regional policy is a vehicle for involving neighbouring countries, creating territorial synergies and reducing regional disparities’ – basically, globalisation and an ever-closer union. in the words of the directorate-general for internal policies, ‘it is difficult to assess whether a macro-regions strategy has influenced the nature, or extent, of the existing initiatives’. as this is the case, why are we wasting british taxpayers’ money, and our time, doing this?
mr president, commissioner, i listened very carefully to your speech, and i am here representing the czech republic, which is in the danube macro-region. i am personally convinced that in the future, future investments of european union money should not be directed only to national projects, but should support cross-border projects and promote cross-border cooperation. and particularly in the railway infrastructure that we're debating here today, i feel we have a huge debt. the iron curtain has fallen, but the rail link between, for example, the czech republic and germany is still insufficient, not in keeping with how two neighbouring friendly states could have a railway infrastructure connected today. i see the problem in the fact that if we want to invest more in this crossborder cooperation in the future and strengthen railway infrastructure, for example, we will have to allocate much more money to such projects. taking into account that today around eur 222 million is allocated to the danube strategy, this is an amount that will not cover any major rail infrastructure project. we have, for example, analysed the cost of modernising the prague-pilsen-nuremberg-munich line, and the figure corresponds to eur 1,4 billion, i.e. more than five times the amount in the entire fund. i think that in future we should also consider, within the budget, how much of the crossborder projects should be of a symbolic nature. it is intended to be a place of transport and railways, for example, the strengthening of cycle paths, which are also in this project, i also welcome them, cycling is certainly important, but it probably does not, we all feel, as important and strategic as the question of railway infrastructure. so, the project is great, but we need to put more money into this area.
blue-card question.– i would just like to say that in britain we made tremendous mistakes back in the 1950s closing our railways – many of them small railways – because we thought cars were the future. i agree with you that trains are the future, but there is also an enormous problem in the uk: we want to spend an awful lot of money on hs2, which is a bullet train or whatever that goes from london up to scotland. it is a good idea in many ways, but what we would rather have is a better railway system, rather than spending an absolute fortune on a railway system which does not help the average commuter. also, the fares on this proposed line will probably be astronomical, and the only people who will be able to afford to travel on it will be superannuated businessmen and members of this honourable house. nobody else will be able to afford to go on it. i would much rather see money spent on regional railways than on taking business from one place to another and leaving everything in the middle ignored. do you agree with me on that, madam?
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, this is an issue which has prompted literally thousands of emails from the ‘protect our pets’ campaign. our constituents are concerned about the growing illegal pet trade in europe and they want us to take action. thousands of animals – as the previous speaker has just said – have been traded illegally for profit each year, in spite of the existing european pet travel scheme. this is costing millions of euros and the welfare of thousands of animals. they are bred purely to make money; they are born in inhumane circumstances on an industrial scale; they are poorly cared for and exposed to disease; there is no record of where they were born, or when they were born; no record of where they travelled through, or whether they have had the appropriate vaccinations. any documents used are frequently falsified under the current pet scheme. owners are unwittingly funding a disgusting industry, unaware of the level of care their pet may need. the commission’s own investigation into dogs and cats concludes that lack of harmonisation in identification and registration systems across the member states is a key area for attention, in order to end this illegal trade. to close the loopholes in the existing pet scheme, we need to ensure that pets have a person responsible for them at all times, whether that person be the owner, the breeder, or the shelter. this will enable us to keep track of origin, age, vaccinations and the animal’s welfare. the responsible person should then register these details with a competent overseer in the member state. should the pet then live in a different member state, the competent authority there should be able to access its previous details. today i would like to ask the commission to bring forward regulations that will harmonise the national identification and registration systems and requirements for pets across the european union.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i understand your concerns about the national level, but that does not solve, as has already been said, crossborder trade. so, what would be the solution if the national registries were compatible and worked together? we have trade registers in individual countries, we have other public registries that are interconnected within 28 countries, and these systems work together. it would not be so costly if each national register were a gateway from another country, etc. we don't need to have one central european register.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i have two questions for the commissioner to consider. in october last year the uk rspca brought a successful legal action against a criminal gang which was smuggling puppies into great britain. the gang was making over gbp 35 000 a week selling sick and dying dogs while pretending to be bona fide traders. whilst the gang was successfully prosecuted, this clearly is not an isolated case. does the commissioner agree that this highlights the degree to which this trade is criminal and represents cross-border organised crime, tax evasion and fraud? secondly, correctly identifying the age of a puppy or a kitten as meeting the legal requirement of 15 weeks is almost impossible at present. unless there is a mandatory registration within the first few weeks of birth, does the commissioner agree there will be continuing difficulty in establishing animals’ exact ages? both of these examples, i believe, underline the clear need for the introduction of a harmonised national system for the identification and registration of pets in each member state, so please support the resolution when we get a chance to vote on it at the second plenary in february.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, i accept that many domestic animals need registration, especially when moving long distances, and that it makes sense for data systems to be compatible if they are to be tracked through international borders. however, i do not accept – and will never accept – that this justifies centralisation or a vast new bureaucracy. english is a wonderful language of vivid metaphor, and two phrases come to mind which perfectly describe what the eu does all the time. firstly, using a sledgehammer to crack a nut. so often, massively over—engineered, highly technical solutions are produced to solve real problems, but ones which do not require monstrous bureaucratic apparatus backed by draconian laws and sentences, which are then enforced selectively – or perhaps not at all – in some member states. secondly, the thin end of the wedge, when the eu uses rational bureaucratic need to justify job creation and data recording to build what amounts to a major new edifice in the centralised eu governmental empire, with powers to match. quite simply, the cats and dogs and goldfish and stick insects may need tracking but, if they do, it should be a role for national governments. they should not become an issue for eurocrats, and that is what you will make them.
mr president, you might apologise for that comment when you hear what i have to say. it is nothing to do with ireland. i want to bring to your attention and to the attention of vice-president/high representative mogherini a palestinian hunger striker, a 33-year-old journalist, a father of two children, who has been on hunger strike for 92 days without charge or without trial. he is dying. his doctor has said he is on the verge of death. we are calling on vice-president/high representative mogherini to intervene, please, and talk to the israeli president and save this man’s life.
blue-card question.– can i ask you to repeat what you said in the question? you said the renegotiation that has been agreed is the final renegotiation. there are some people in the united kingdom who are giving the impression to the british electorate that there will be a referendum and, depending on the result, they will come back and there will be renegotiation. please, for clarity, would you confirm to the people of the united kingdom that the renegotiation has now been completed and there will be no further renegotiations after the referendum has taken place?
blue-card question.– mr pittella, i need some clarification, because i was listening to what you said, and – if i got the gist correctly – you seem to be saying that there could be no discrimination in social rights. paltry as the agreement that mr cameron has come back with may have been, it does say that – for a period, anyway – we can pay people child benefit at the rate in their own country and not in our country. that would be discrimination in the real sense of the word. i believe you said something like ‘we will have to see what happens when the legislation comes through parliament’. are you saying that this legislation could be different from the agreement, and that the agreement may be changed, or – as previous speakers have said – it will not be changed? which is it? are you saying that parliament could change it if it wanted to? will it?
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the deal struck last week was hard fought by all sides. many countries had concerns and objections, but i am glad that those hurdles were overcome, aided by willpower, fuelled by packets of haribo and sealed following a visit to the chip shop. we found an agreement that enshrines the united kingdom’s special status as a country never joining the euro and never joining schengen, as a country that does not wish to be part of the ratchet of the european political project, and that delivers a live—and—let—live agreement, one where the united kingdom continues to play an active role in the european union without facing discrimination in areas where it wishes to keep national control. the ecr group welcomes this deal, and now it is for the british people to pass judgement on these new terms. i will be supporting the campaign to remain in the european union. (applause and catcalls) my reasoning is simple: britain’s economic recovery, though good, is still fragile, and i will not put it at risk by tearing us away from the single market. i also believe that my constituents will be safer and my country more secure if we continue our cooperation with our european partners. there are good people who would disagree with me, and i respect their decision. if the british people decide to leave, then we must respect that choice and make it work. but there are also those in this chamber who are not respectful of other people’s choices – we can hear them today jeering behind me – those who compare the eu with the soviet union. i think that is foolish and offensive to those who actually lived under the yoke of communism. (applause)because, unlike the ussr, any country is free to leave the european union. mr farage, that is the will of the sovereign people. being in the eu is a choice, and the conservative party will respect that choice. the voters in britain will exercise their sovereignty and they will decide whether to remain or to leave, and in the uk we can now look forward to debating this subject for the next four months. the eu must concentrate on the migration crisis it faces. the dutch prime minister said we had six to eight weeks to save schengen. he said that five weeks ago. in this chamber we seem unwilling to accept that the migrant crisis was exacerbated when chancellor merkel said germany would take people without limits, unilaterally defying a number of european rules. and – guess what – people are coming without limits. when some countries, like hungary, apply the rules and defend the schengen border, they are criticised, and when other countries break the rules, they are applauded. we cannot begin to solve this crisis until we enforce the rules in place: to protect the external schengen border, to focus on the basics of processing detention and returns, and to prevent asylum seekers and economic migrants moving around the eu at will. we need international action to end the conflict in syria. we need to give priority to those refugees already in the camps in lebanon, jordan and turkey, both with humanitarian aid and in offering them refuge. is it not perverse that the eu gives priority to those who cross the aegean, rather than those already classified as refugees by the united nations? mr tusk, i recommend that for the next eu summit, you order in copious amounts of chips from maison antoine and you tell the eu leaders to get cracking. (applause)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– i am delighted to hear mr fox say that he has come off the fence in favour of campaigning to remain in the european union. we all know that his party is split from head to toe on this question. may i ask him: among the 20 british conservative meps, how many will be campaigning with your party leader, your prime minister, to remain in the european union, and how many will be campaigning with ukip to get britain to walk out, slamming the door on all our neighbouring countries?
blue-card answer. – i think that if mr corbett is so interested in the opinions of my colleagues, then he should ask them.
blue-card question.– [...] none of the fear tactics or scaremongering that we’ve seen from mr verhofstadt, so thank you. i think you’re giving the eu a lot of credit for things that it has not done, but you mentioned the deal. in my view, in the deal we have got rid of the words ‘ever closer union’, which never had legal force, and we have got this emergency brake, although it is not clear how it is going to be applied, and it misunderstands the problem. my question to you is this: can you think of any other concrete example of anything that cameron has actually achieved in this deal? (laughter)
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, it is already rather exciting, isn’t it? it is referendum season and the referendum is coming – on 6 april in the netherlands – where they are going to have a referendum on the ukrainian deal, and the opinion polls show that they are going to reject it. and, just today, mr orbán has announced that there is going to be a referendum in hungary on whether they should be forced to accept mandatory quotas for migrants after the grievous errors of the eu’s common asylum policy, not to mention mrs merkel’s pronouncements. and overnight we get a czech premier telling us that there is now demand building in the czech republic to have a referendum on membership. oh, and i nearly forgot, there is going to be a british referendum on 23 june on whether we remain in or leave the european union. this follows a 40—hour summit, where mr cameron, doing his modern day impression of oliver twist, went up to mr tusk and said, ‘please sir, can i have some more concessions?’ well, he didn’t get very much did he? we are allowed to change – ever so slightly – migrant benefits for a short period of time, and we are told that, in future, we will not be committed to ever closer union. and, on the basis of all that, we are going to have a referendum which the prime minister says is on a deal that is legally binding. indeed mr tusk joined in with this today by saying the british deal was legally binding. to top that off, mr cameron has told us that he will lodge the deal – will lodge the documents – at the united nations. but frankly, you might as well lodge an old pair of socks, because the fact of lodging a document there is completely meaningless – you could use a safety deposit box. but is this deal legally binding, mr tusk? well, the ecj itself said in 2008 that the obligations imposed by an international agreement cannot have the effect of prejudicing the constitutional principles of the eu treaties, which means that the ecj rules in favour of the existing treaties until we get a new treaty. but who’s to say there is going to be a new treaty? any new treaty would trigger yet more referendums and would not, i think, be favoured by the big groups in this parliament. but of course, we have an emergency brake. that has been judged to be a great success but, crucially, that happened through secondary legislation that can be voted on by this parliament. so what happens? we have a referendum. we follow mr cameron, we vote to remain and then we come back to this parliament. is this parliament going to support british exceptionalism? i think we have heard voices today that make it perfectly clear that this will not happen. so the deal, mr tusk – and mr cameron if you are listening – is not legally binding in any way at all. i have to say that the british public will decide which is our safest option. is it safe to stay within an organisation whose own police boss tells us there are 3 000 to 5 000 terrorists who have now come into our continent through the migrant crisis, or is it safest to take back control of our own borders and our own democracy? after much consideration, i have decided to opt to vote for us to leave. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well mr casa, i do not know who has been briefing you on ukip’s electoral history. you perhaps have not got a very good memory, but in 2014, with 28% of the vote, ukip won the european elections, topping the poll across the united kingdom: the first time since 1906 that a party that was not labour or the conservatives had won a national election. so i hope that brings you up to speed. as for the referendum, i believe it is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. i am certain that, if we vote to remain, we are unlikely ever to get another opportunity, and we will sink deeper inside this political union. but i think there is every chance now that the momentum is on our side of the argument. so yes, we are going to vote to leave and, within a short period of time, all the british meps will be gone. how about that? (applause and cheers from ukip)
mr president, as we in the united kingdom look towards our very own independence day on 23 june 2016, we do so knowing that, despite the best efforts of our prime minister to deliver change, the eu is neither willing nor able to do so. the new settlement promised to us in 2013 by david cameron has been ditched, our sovereignty will continue to be eroded and our security will continue to be at risk. we will continue to send billions more to the eu than we get back, and the fundamental flaws of membership will remain. but even if we look at the mediocre tweaks being hailed by those advocating staying in, they bring with them no guarantees. there will be no guarantee of treaty change. this parliament can unravel the deal, as can the ecj. what we have before us is a charade, an attempt to deceive the british people with a pig-in-a-poke deal. my message to my constituents is this: don’t buy it. believe in our united kingdom because, in the words of that wonderful belfast-born author, ‘there are far, far better things ahead than any we leave behind’. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– ms mcguinness, thank you for your question. it is indeed a very relevant one and i have always acknowledged the role that this place, this parliament and these institutions have played in making sure that there were peace funds available to northern ireland. however, open europe, for example, has estimated that in terms of structural funds, for every pound sterling that northern ireland gets back, it costs us gbp 1.58. in terms of good relationships with our neighbours in the irish republic, of course i welcome the fact that today we have much better relationships than we have ever had before, and i hope and know that this will continue. and can i make a plea to you, ms mcguinness, to your taoiseach and to any future uk prime minister, that what we need in northern ireland is a genuine and honest debate, and not the scaremongering tactics that we have so far seen from those who threaten us with all kinds of things in northern ireland if we do not toe the european line?
mr president, we could use this debate to discuss the details of the deal struck last friday, but that would be to miss the point. the deal was done, and now the clock is ticking. while the summit has finally given the british prime minister what he needed – to speak out loud and clear in favour of our eu membership – it is not friday’s deal that is on the ballot paper for the uk referendum. the question facing the british people is far more significant than anything that can be agreed over a very late breakfast in brussels. it is about the very future of britain as an outward—looking global player. it is about the future of europe at a time when we need international cooperation to face the challenges of an uncertain world. for too long, politicians in britain have shied away from the big arguments about europe. we have allowed debate to be dominated by those on the other side of the chamber and by those who are willing to stoke fear and divide communities to drive forward their ideological agenda, and by those who go heavy on the rhetoric and bluster but are in short supply of actual answers when asked about their alternatives to britain holding its head high as an active and leading member of the eu. colleagues, it is time we called out those who claim to speak for britain but who, in truth, represent only a fraction of the british people. it is time we called out those who claim to be making a patriotic case but argue for a course of action that would diminish our country’s standing in the world. it is time we called out those who claim to care about working people but are pushing for the choice that means less job security and fewer working rights. that is why labour is already out there, going from door to door, street to street, making the case not just for britain to remain a member of the eu but for it to be once again a leading player in europe. thanks to campaigning by labour and the trade unions, we have been able to block early efforts by the tories to weaken workers’ rights as part of their negotiations. those rights to paid holiday, equal pay and a safe place to work will feature front and centre of our campaign to remain. we will be making a positive case about britain’s place in the world and about the fact that, on everything from the environment to the economy, britain is stronger when working together with its european partners. there is still much we can do to make europe work better for our constituents. nobody should be under any illusion: after the referendum is won, after the legislation agreed at this summit is passed, our job of reforming europe is not done. but for britain to have an influence on this process, we must have a seat at the table. so, for britain and for europe, we will fight with every breath to win. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– in the british general election which was just a few months ago, the labour manifesto opposed there being a referendum on brexit. do you support the principle of there being a referendum, or are you still opposed to being there being a referendum? and if you support there being a referendum, why have you changed your mind?
blue-card answer. – i think that is irrelevant. we are having a referendum. whether we like it or not, we are there. what we have got to do is ensure that we fight for the future of the british people, and the future of the british people is a strong britain in a strong europe. it is strong for our economy, it is strong for our security, it is strong for jobs and investment, and it is strong for workers’ rights.
mr president, pushing workers beyond the poverty line because of their nationality is not the way to keep britain in the eu. vague promises of competitiveness and semantic victories on an ever closer union will not satisfy the thirst of the eurosceptics. you could hear it here today. without doubt the eu is far from perfect. it is too distant from citizens, it lumbers on with a staggering democratic deficit and drains power from where it should reside, which is, without doubt, national parliaments. but the eu does offer fundamental protections in the fields of workers’, consumers’ and human rights. it presents opportunities for progressive forces to unite. it has supported the irish peace process and projects aimed at reducing the impact of the border through interreg and peace funding, with examples like at the footbridge uniting pettigo in county donegal and tullyhommon in fermanagh. much-needed structural and agricultural funds have made a huge and positive impact on the north of ireland, and there are thousands of constituents with no faith in a british government replacing those funds post-brexit. for these reasons, sinn féin will campaign vigorously against a brexit. ireland’s place is in europe – north and south.
mr president, this is a time of intense political debate in wales, because prior to the eu referendum in june we have elections in may for the new welsh government and assembly. we are talking about how to build a strong and sustainable economy and thriving communities, and for me the messages go hand—in—hand. my party, plaid cymru – the party of wales – believes that wales’s natural home is in europe, and we will be campaigning to ensure that our successful relationship and partnership flourishes in future. wales benefits from eu membership economically, socially and culturally. we want a stronger voice for wales in europe and we will continue to work for that, but this referendum is about the bigger picture. it is about the kind of nation we want wales to be, and for the kind of europe that we want for the future: one where we, here in wales, like other countries, can contribute to building a fairer and a better society. our message is a positive one. we believe it is in the interests of all our people – our rural and urban areas, our workers and companies, and most of all our young people – for us to remain in the european union. we have to remember that this is a choice we are making not just for ourselves but for future generations as well.
blue-card question.– mr guerrero, as a socialist, do you actually buy into what david cameron has put on the table? so we have a two-speed europe, but your citizens across the eastern european states – poland, romania and others – that come to our countries to work, are treated as second-class citizens. because if cameron gets a change to the treaties – and let us bear in mind that he has to get a change to the treaties – then your citizens cannot come to my country and claim in-work benefits. now, i do not believe in second-class citizens. i believe, if you are going to buy into the eu, that you should be buying into it wholesale, not having an option to opt out. is your socialist group going to accept this two-speed and second-class europe?
blue-card question.– regarding your application of voting to the irish citizens who reside in the rest of the united kingdom, including in my country, england: i find it extraordinary really that you should be saying that. i do not see how that is possibly going to help you or your cause in terms of the irish republic and its debt overhang in the banking system. are you advocating that your country leaves the european union and rejoins the united kingdom and the sterling zone? is that the logic of what you are saying? what do you say to the fact that, if there is a vote to leave, there will be a customs border between northern ireland – which is part of united kingdom – and the republic, which will impede trade and put more burdens economically on the republic? how do you account for that? how is that going to help prosperity and jobs in the south – in the republic – if there is a customs border which will actually stop the flow between northern ireland, which will still be in the united kingdom and therefore outside of the european union, and your country, which will still be in the european union and in the customs union?
mr president, greens want britain to remain part of the eu because we believe that we need to work together on shared solutions to the collective challenges that we face. climate change, the pollution of our oceans, terrorism and the refugee crisis show no respect for borders and require collaborative and cooperative solutions. so far, the debate about whether our future lies in europe or not has been dominated by middle-aged men in suits – but this was the boring part, like the trailers and the adverts that you have to sit through before you get to the film you came to watch. the main feature is starting now, and we all get a starring role and everybody gets an equal say. personally, i share the concerns of those who believe that european politics have sometimes run ahead of what people in the uk and other parts of europe as a whole are comfortable with. but i still believe that the european story should be celebrated: a story of different peoples and cultures working together for the common good. we all know that the eu is not perfect, but we need to stay in it to transform it. the referendum campaign is a chance to have a conversation about how another europe is possible. let us talk about how corporate influence can be curtailed and the institutions of the eu made more democratic and accountable to the citizens of europe. it is a unique opportunity to re-establish a europe by the people and for the people.
mr president, i would like to thank the eu leaders for their tolerance for yet more british demands. they recognise the importance of a deal for mr cameron, but mostly for his own party. now the battle begins: the referendum is under way, but it is not yet safely won. we have been fed lies and scare stories over 20 years from a largely foreign-owned media and comical characters such as mr farage. the stakes could not be higher. people i speak to want to know their future will be prosperous, stable and secure. staying in europe is the best way to guarantee that. businesses know that access to the world’s largest single market far outweighs any free trade deals, but the work of the eu is so much more – it is migration, climate change, terrorists – all these. we must work together on these issues. those calling for eu exit are like lemmings running to the cliff’s edge, but they cannot tell us what is on the other side. that is not patriotic; it is idiotic. let us remain in, together, with a britain to be proud of to hand on to our future generations.
mr president, first of all i would like to welcome some constituents who are here from the south-east of england. i hope you have enjoyed the debate. well that was a successful negotiation. david cameron got precisely 1% of what he asked for, and only if there is treaty change. i represented the enf in the conference of presidents last week along with mr brok, but our arrogant prime minister decided he only wanted to meet half the meps and the eu leaders represented there, despite us actually representing hundreds of meps. that meeting told me what the british people need to know. there will be no treaty change; there will be no taking back control of our borders. there will be no restriction on the free movement of people; the so-called in-work benefits brake can be challenged by the eu courts; and the only vote on the deal by the meps in this chamber is only indicative and not legally binding. so, mr brok, the prime minister’s deal is not worth the paper it is written on, and that was told to him by his justice secretary, michael gove, today. the eu courts and the eu politicians can rip it up straight after the referendum, and the only way to get real change is to vote leave.
madam president, i am sure i am not alone in being worried about the position that the democratic unionist party have taken in northern ireland. they are apparently opposed to the united kingdom staying in the european union, but – as their name suggests – they are a unionist party. however, if the united kingdom leaves, this will trigger a further referendum in scotland and, if scotland leaves the united kingdom, there will be no union. there will be no union jack. there can be no union jack without the flag of st andrew. so i would ask the democratic unionist party to reconsider their position. how can they be a unionist party and be working to destroy the union? please change your position.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank the council – in the person of our former colleague from parliament – for being here with us on this important debate. the single market is a precious resource which the european union’s current and future economic prosperity depends upon. the untapped potential of the single market, estimated at eur 1 trillion in value, is both an opportunity and a wake-up call to ensuring the single market works to benefit us all. i think it is a great pity that we have continued to miss out on these advances for over 20 years, especially in the light of the ever-growing internationalisation and global competition that we face. the single market has great potential to boost jobs and growth, and this prospect has been widely acknowledged at an eu level. however, despite repeated calls to strengthen the single market in the council and in annual growth surveys and country-specific recommendations, not enough progress has been achieved so far. in order to effectively deliver on jobs and growth and competitiveness, the progress of integration of the single market and member states must be accompanied with better governance and greater transparency of the process. including the single market under the european semester could help us achieve this goal. regular, structured compliance dialogue with member states, proper involvement of the european parliament, inclusive and non-discriminatory approaches to all eu member states, euro and non-eurozone, member states’ national parliaments and all stakeholders, is crucial for transparency, governance and ownership, and ultimately for the success of the process. i also believe it is the enforcement and implementation of already existing eu legislation by all 28 member states that is key to unlocking the full potential of the single market: overcoming unnecessary non-tariff obstacles, proper implementation of the services directive, proper and timely transposition and implementation of public procurement and concessions legislation, modernising public administrations, providing more and better accessible digital services for citizens and businesses – and these are just a few examples where already-existing eu legislation is not yet properly implemented. they are stalling the development of the single market across the european union. change cannot and should not only come from the top. all players need to embrace a single market compliance culture and work in a cooperative partnership. such multi-level ownership needs to be supported by adequate training, assistance and dedicated resources and accessible information at all levels. i have tried to address these features in my report, and overall i am pleased with the final text. i would like to thank the shadows for their contributions; although we did not always agree on everything, i think we managed to reach an agreement in the end. i would also note that it is my firm belief – and hopefully that of many of my colleagues – that one of the reasons we are here as members of the european parliament is to ensure that we pass and adopt transparent, appropriate and fair laws. since the treaty of lisbon entered into force, parliament has more say over what and how legislation is adopted at eu level, and we need to use this influence as the only democratically-elected eu institution to ensure we adopt better regulations and better regulatory principles. that is why on behalf of my group, i am asking for a slight change of wording in paragraph 46, via an amendment. this is to ensure that the better regulation principle is duly referred to in this report, as better governance and greater transparency of the process equates to an enhanced functioning of the single market for consumers and businesses alike. i hope i can count on your support, colleagues, to support the amendment and the text as a whole, and i thank you for your cooperation.
madam president, like others, i would like to thank the rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs for her openness. within this process many of us have been arguing for quite some time that the social dimension –social fairness – has to be fully recognised. we really hope that what we are seeing here is a genuine shift in the commission – but i think many of us wait to be convinced. we welcome the additional social indicators, but we think they have got to have a real meaning and a real impact on policy and that social fairness means that we have to tackle the inequalities, both within and between our countries. we recognise that it is not a by-product of economic activity but requires considered action. so we welcome the report’s call for investment in services such as healthcare, child care and housing. social fairness will be helped by decent wages, and it really is time that we closed the gender pay gap and tackled in—work poverty. we really hope that social dialogue is seriously back on the agenda, having been so badly damaged.
madam president, so we reach this point every year, the moment when supporters of the eurozone predict that happier days are just around the corner – strong growth, major job creation, all the things that never actually come to pass. euro supporters talk about the potential of further structural reforms, and almost everyone agrees with mr draghi about the euro being a success. that is, of course, a complete load of rubbish. the euro area has barely grown at all in the relatively benign conditions of the past year. take things back to the euro’s inception: an index placing economies at 100 back in the first quarter of 1999 would have just crawled to 123 for the eurozone 17 years later. even in the uk, where we have had our share of stops and starts, we have reached 137 in the same timeframe. your politically-inspired currency does not work and as a result many of your young people do not work either. that is not going to change until you put the euro out of its misery. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– well, as you know, currencies tend to go down and they go up as well. in fact, after the 2008 crash, the pound sterling went down and we saved something like a million jobs in our country, while you were losing millions of jobs in the eurozone because the individual nation states could not run their own currencies. it is actually quite benign that sterling has gone down at the moment because investors across the world have finally woken up to the eurozone weaknesses. so, if we can get a temporary corrective out of a temporary decline in sterling, i do not mind that at all.
rapporteur.– madam president, thank you to colleagues, the shadows, the council and the commission. the importance of the single market has been heard today and we know that we have the beauty of the single market, but balancing that with social rights is some strength that we have within this european union. many colleagues have spoken about the issue of digital, and i would like to touch on the importance of the digital single market in my final remarks. we are experiencing this fourth industrial revolution. you just need to look across at colleagues while this debate has been going on, with everyone on their smartphones. in fact, by 2021, 70% of all handsets will be smartphones. by 2020 there will be 14 billion network devices and 3.2 billion people using the internet. mobile traffic alone has grown by 65% from quarter 4 in 2014 to quarter 4 in 2015. we are truly experiencing this revolution, and this links into the semester and the single market. there are three points i want to make: accessibility when it comes to the digital single market strategy; accessibility to superfast broadband and infrastructure; and accessibility to ensure that those who have the least also have access to this revolution. we do not want the digital divide to become a digital chasm. on skills, we look at the range from just switching on a computer right through to becoming a software developer. in fact, while we have been speaking in this chamber, one of the great initiatives called codeclan has been happening in scotland. this allows people who want to be software engineers to be able to do that within a three- to four-month period. this is about lifelong learning and about mindset – a mindset that, no matter if you are a small business or a multinational, we all have to get real about digital. therefore i think we have an opportunity through the semester, and through the single market, to make the european union one of the most digitally-savvy spaces in the planet, and this is the opportunity we have now.
in writing.– this report concerns the european parliament’s contribution to the definition of economic policy priorities for the 2016 european semester process of policy coordination, responding to the commission’s annual growth survey and related documents, including a draft recommendation for the economic policy of the euro area. in parallel, reports on the employment and social aspects and the single market aspects of the european semester are also being drawn up. these reports are discussed with the commission and the council in preparation for the spring european council meeting. the present report aims to stimulate debate at european level, also with the involvement of national parliamentarians, social partners and civil society. it is my view that in the current economic circumstances the ‘virtuous triangle’ of fiscal responsibility and structural reform, promoted by the european commission, should be enlarged into a ‘solid square’, with domestic demand as the fourth component. there is also a clear need for higher investment. furthermore, there is an excess of savings not channelled towards the real economy.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i hope it will not seem grandiose if i suggest that this quite long technical piece of legislation might be a microcosm of the european union as a whole. in the first case, the process by which we arrived at this piece of work was collaborative, it was sensible, it was admirably led by the rapporteur, mr becker, and i learned a lot as a british socialist about where the centre of gravity in this union lies. it lies in a very liberal, sensible, social place. social partnership was easily woven throughout this piece of legislation as it could never have been in the uk. it is free to workers throughout, there was no controversy with other political partners, and cherry-picking by the private sector was as abhorrent to our ppe colleagues in this process as it was to us, which it would never have been back in the uk. i think the whole of our proceedings very often mirror this experience. it was also long, dull, dry, technical and difficult to explain to other people, but actually rather important and meaningful, and in that sense too it mirrors the work that we do as a whole in this place and in these institutions. finally, in what is only ever two minutes, this is an instrument which did not use to work at all, but which thanks to this legislation has been fundamentally revised and in future will, i think, work very well and will improve access to jobs and work for hundreds of millions of people across the union in a very productive and beneficial way.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, many people in the uk will not have heard of eures, but they might remember the story that hit the headlines about a website that advertises uk jobs across the entire eu. as an mep i am regularly contacted by people who are desperate for work and desperate to support their families, but who – even after years of searching – have failed. i do not believe this is because every single unemployed brit is lazy or unqualified, as some politicians say. so why does the british government support a strengthened and expanded policy which allows every man and his dog to apply for jobs in the uk? it means that job centres in the uk are now legally obliged to advertise any vacancies they have to half a billion people. let me get one thing straight: this legislation has not been written for the benefit of the working person; it has been written for the benefit of big business. open-door immigration is a policy which has driven down wages in the uk, and this is backed up by the gmb union. the minimum wage has become the maximum wage, and british taxpayers are now subsidising low salaries which employers can get away with thanks to the over-supply in the labour market. the government’s support for this expansion of eures and the obligation for all member states to post jobs on the website was just a cynical attempt to make it look like the proportion of uk jobs advertised was smaller in comparison to other countries, but figures show that one third of the vacancies advertised on ‘your first eures job’ were placements in britain. 1 178 unemployed people from across the eu took jobs or training in britain, yet only 25 britons under 30 found jobs. i do not believe we should be exporting jobs to other eu member states, and we certainly should not be paying gbp 55 million a day into an organisation that tells us we must. i hope british voters realise what this government and the eu are doing ahead of the referendum in june, when i believe we can get our country back and put british people first. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from mr siôn simon)
madam president, in the debate earlier today we heard mr tusk and mr juncker both say that if the british people vote to remain in the european union, then the measures in mr cameron’s deal will require legislation. but mr tusk gave the game away when he said that he ‘hoped’ they would pass into legislation. in particular, they will require amendments to the directive on free movement, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. parliament may actually vote to reject or change the substance of the deal, but we will not know that until after the referendum, if indeed the british people vote to remain. mr cameron is trying to sell a pig in a poke. the real issue in the referendum is whether the british people want their country to be a mere region of a united states of europe, or whether they wish to restore our former status as an independent, self-governing nation. i urge them to vote to leave.
madam president, this week i will submit an opinion to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs aimed at protecting and enhancing the rights of persons with disabilities. the opinion will focus on the promotion of several rights, including the full implementation of the un recommendations on the rights of persons with disabilities, full implementation of a european accessibility act, the removal of all barriers for people with disabilities and, crucially, the protection of the rights of our most vulnerable disabled people, including stateless people, homeless people, refugees and asylum seekers. the 1916 irish proclamation calls on us to cherish all children equally. this is at the heart of what sinn féin do, and i hope the committee will take on board my proposal, as people with disabilities need our dedication, application and commitment. i can tell the house that the sinn féin delegation and the other delegations in the gue/ngl group have all of these in abundance.
madam president, i am not here to criticise an ombudsman who is doing a difficult job under tough circumstances. when 46% of people have no trust in the european union, the figure in the united kingdom is surely far higher. we have revolving door cases involving high-ranking officials; we have an incredibly low rate of any officials actually being sacked when there is any misconduct. it was the beatles who used to finish their shows by telling the audience: you’re such a lovely audience, we’d love to take you home with us, but unfortunately we took the last audience home and there’s no more room. well, i truly believe that if the british people could be the audience, if they could come out here to brussels and see what i see on a daily basis, if it were not so remote, if they could see all the excesses of this place then on 23 june they would vote to leave.
madam president, i would like to thank ms o’reilly and our rapporteur. our report emphasises the crucial role that the european ombudsman plays in ensuring european democracy and her key mission to make the voices of citizens heard. in her renewed mandate, the ombudsman has demonstrated a clear commitment to increasing transparency, protecting fundamental rights and taking action to the benefit of the general public. the ombudsman’s investigations into the ongoing ttip negotiations have helped us achieve a greater deal of transparency than ever before in eu trade policy. more documents have been published and greater access to documents granted. to secure a decent ttip agreement, we need to demonstrate that cherished institutions, such as our nhs in the uk, are not under threat. transparency is crucial to delivering public trust in our trade policy, and the uk government could learn a great deal from your work, ms o’reilly, in releasing the legal advice that they undertook on the impact of ttip on the nhs and releasing that information as soon as possible. citizens’ concerns for the protection of the fundamental rights of refugees have been heard loud and clear by parliament’s committee on petitions and by the european ombudsman. i fully support the ombudsman’s call to establish a complaints mechanism for refugees fleeing war, who deserve to have their fundamental rights respected and upheld by frontex. her actions to ensure that clinical reports on medicines by the european medicines agency are published not only shows a commitment to proactive transparency but is also securing another step towards making lifesaving drugs for diseases such as hepatitis c available at affordable prices for those who need them. i congratulate the european ombudsman on her achievements so far and encourage her to continue pressing and pursuing her five-year plan and strategy towards 2019 for the benefit of all of us. we look forward to your continued work, and we look forward to working with you and your team. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– ms kirton- darling, i note that you give guarantees about ttip and that it will not impact on the nhs. i further note that that is very different from what the unions are currently saying and, indeed, from the legal advice that i believe unison came out with just a couple of days ago. are you saying that you completely reject the advice on that position from the trade unions?
blue-card answer.– mr arnott, i think you have fully misunderstood what i just said. what i said is that to ensure that there is public trust in trade policy, we need transparency. the legal advice undertaken not by unison but by unite on the impact of ttip on the nhs is actually very worrying. the uk government has undertaken its own legal advice around the impact of the ttip agreement on the nhs. i have been calling for its publication, and unions in the uk and nhs campaigners in the uk have been calling for its publication. the uk government should now publish that advice.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, back in england there is a debate going on about our eu membership, where this relationship between unelected commission and elected parliament comes up time and again. so when the commission ignores parliament’s request for over two years, and when documents finally turn up just before a debate, this is yet another practical example of how real power actually still lies with the commission – unelected – rather than parliament. so, what of cigarette smuggling? well, first let us do no harm, let us note that the evidence on a link between plain packaging and smuggling is mixed and make sure that member states can decide their own laws. while we are on public health, we should welcome, not condemn, moves from traditional cigarettes to e-cigarettes, and i have a lot of concerns about the revised tobacco products directive on that one, which is going to put people in my constituency out of work, which is going to increase the share of the market held by big tobacco, make it harder for people to quit smoking, and result in more deaths. there are a lot of things that i think really need to be looked at again.
madam president, like other colleagues i welcome the belated commission assessment of the pmi agreement, and there is no doubt that there have been some positive results. there has been a reduction in illicit trade of genuine products. it has given us the opportunity to share intelligence with member states and with olaf, and it has provided some public revenue. i also welcome the establishment of an anti-fraud team relating to tobacco within olaf, although there are of course outstanding issues. nobody is saying that the existing agreements are perfect; in fact they are far from perfect. there is the issue of smuggling of non-branded cigarettes, and hopefully the who protocol can start to address this. but of course we need a large number of countries to sign up for this new agreement or protocol to be effective. it would also be useful if the new eu agreements, when they are completed, are compliant with the who protocol, and i would welcome the commissioner’s view on that. we also need any new agreements to become more transparent, with more regular reporting of measures and results on websites. this would allow us, the member states and the public to judge the effectiveness of any new agreements, because i think it is fair to say that not everyone supports new tobacco agreements, and we have heard that from colleagues here this morning. therefore we do need to demonstrate that any new agreements are effective, at least as an interim measure, before the who protocols are put in place.
madam president, the commissioner asked what to do about the regulatory gap. i do not think we have a regulatory gap. i was a rapporteur on the tobacco products directive, and many colleagues have referred to that directive here this morning. that directive does provide, as you know, for a track and trace system, which will come into effect in 2019. we have heard from all the colleagues that it is true that the number of cigarettes from philip morris has gone down, but the number of illegal cigarettes on the market remains the same. so there is no health gain from this agreement. it is a very strange kind of world in which companies make agreements to help obey the law and to help tackle illicit smuggling. it is also very strange that the companies that are running around the commission and parliament are lobbying in favour of this agreement. we ought to be asking ourselves why they want a new agreement. so i really urge you not to go ahead with this agreement, but to stop in our tracks and to focus on implementing the tobacco products directive with an independent track and trace system, not the one the tobacco companies want.
madam president, i just wanted to raise my disgust. this matter was delayed from a vote on 4 february for no better reasons than to save embarrassment and the diplomatic niceties ahead of the delegation visit. since that time, i am sure colleagues across the house will be disgusted that more people have died, cholera has spread further and the infrastructure has decayed further. i think it is a shame on this place that this vote was delayed from the 4th at the hands of innocent yemeni civilians. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report today because it opposes in principle any requirement that a member state of the eu must obtain authorisation from the eu before signing certain international treaties.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency i would like to confirm that i abstained on this issue. it is not for me or anyone else to vote on matters that concern other sovereign states such as austria and malta.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report today because it opposes in principle any requirement that a member state of the eu must obtain authorisation from the eu before signing certain international treaties.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report today because it opposes in principle any requirement that a member state of the eu must obtain authorisation from the eu before signing certain international treaties.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report today because it opposes in principle any requirement that a member state of the eu must obtain authorisation from the eu before signing certain international treaties.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report today because it opposes in principle any requirement that a member state of the eu must obtain authorisation from the eu before signing certain international treaties
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this authorisation for austria to sign and ratify, and malta to accede to, the hague convention of 15 november 1965, which offers an effective system for transmitting extra—judicial documents from one state party to another.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report today because it opposes in principle any requirement that a member state of the eu must obtain authorisation from the eu before signing certain international treaties.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report today because it opposes in principle any requirement that a member state of the eu must obtain authorisation from the eu before signing certain international treaties.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report today because it opposes in principle any requirement that a member state of the eu must obtain authorisation from the eu before signing certain international treaties.
in writing. ‒ since the convention has proven its usefulness in the field of the cross-border service of documents, and it is in the interest both of the union as a whole and of the two member states in question to have a single regime for the service of documents in cross-border relations with third countries, i voted for the decision allowing the accession of austria and malta to that convention.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report today because it opposes in principle any requirement that a member state of the eu must obtain authorisation from the eu before signing certain international treaties.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system where both judicial and extra-judicial documents can be served in another signatory state, which widens the scope of access to justice for eu citizens. of the 28 member states only austria and malta have yet to accede to the convention. so this vote represents my support and welcoming of the fact that these two countries will cooperate in this convention with the other 26.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu exercising its legal personality to enter into international agreements in its own capacity. treaties concerning tax evasion can be easily conducted on a bilateral or multilateral basis without the need for the involvement of the eu. accordingly ukip voted against the eu entering into the agreement for measures on taxation of savings income.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency i would like to confirm i voted against this report. i am against the european union having any authority over the financial interests, especially taxation, which should be controlled only by elected national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu exercising its legal personality to enter into international agreements in its own capacity. treaties concerning tax evasion can be easily conducted on a bilateral or multilateral basis without the need for the involvement of the eu. accordingly ukip voted against the eu entering into the agreement for measures on taxation of savings income.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu exercising its legal personality to enter into international agreements in its own capacity. treaties concerning tax evasion can be easily conducted on a bilateral or multilateral basis without the need for the involvement of the eu. accordingly ukip voted against the eu entering into the agreement for measures on taxation of savings income.
in writing. – ukip opposes the eu exercising its legal personality to enter into international agreements in its own capacity. treaties concerning tax evasion can be easily conducted on a bilateral or multilateral basis without the need for the involvement of the eu. accordingly ukip voted against the eu entering into the agreement for measures on taxation of savings income.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu exercising its legal personality to enter into international agreements in its own capacity. treaties concerning tax evasion can be easily conducted on a bilateral or multilateral basis without the need for the involvement of the eu. accordingly ukip voted against the eu entering into the agreement for measures on taxation of savings income.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-san marino agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, which concerns a cooperation agreement between the european union and san marino on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance.
in writing. – ukip opposes the eu exercising its legal personality to enter into international agreements in its own capacity. treaties concerning tax evasion can be easily conducted on a bilateral or multilateral basis without the need for the involvement of the eu. accordingly ukip voted against the eu entering into the agreement for measures on taxation of savings income.
in writing. – ukip opposes the eu exercising its legal personality to enter into international agreements in its own capacity. treaties concerning tax evasion can be easily conducted on a bilateral or multilateral basis without the need for the involvement of the eu. accordingly ukip voted against the eu entering into the agreement for measures on taxation of savings income.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, as it is in line with the need for more transparency on tax issues in the eu and in its relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu exercising its legal personality to enter into international agreements in its own capacity. treaties concerning tax evasion can be easily conducted on a bilateral or multilateral basis without the need for the involvement of the eu. accordingly, ukip voted against the eu entering into the agreement for measures on taxation of savings income.
in writing. ‒ while the tories are bent on preserving tax evasion techniques for the rich in britain, we have been tackling tax evasion in the eu. this agreement means that the eu and san marino will exchange information automatically on the financial accounts of each other’s residents from 2017. there needs to be more transparency on tax issues between third countries and the eu and this is one step in that direction.
in writing. ‒ we are against the ec creating financial interests for member states, therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency i would like to confirm i voted against this report. i do not believe that the unelected officials of the european union should have to power to interfere in a sovereign nation’s financial interests. the financial interests should be protected by the elected members of a country’s national parliament.
in writing. ‒ this is merely a procedural vote allowing croatia to join the ec’s financial interests. we are against the ec creating financial interests for member states, therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ this is merely a procedural vote allowing croatia to join the ec’s financial interests. we are against the ec creating financial interests for member states, therefore we voted against.
in writing. – this is merely a procedural vote allowing croatia to join the ec’s financial interests. we are against the ec creating financial interests for member states, therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report welcoming croatia’s accession to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the union (pif). however, i also call for the immediate re-starting of negotiations on the pif directive to properly tackle fraud and abuse in the context of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ this is merely a procedural vote allowing croatia to join the ec’s financial interests. we are against the ec creating financial interests for member states, therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ this is merely a procedural vote allowing croatia to join the ec’s financial interests. we are against the ec creating financial interests for member states, therefore we voted against.
in writing. – this is merely a procedural vote allowing croatia to join the ec’s financial interests. we are against the ec creating financial interests for member states, therefore we voted against.
in writing. – this is merely a procedural vote allowing croatia to join the ec’s financial interests. we are against the ec creating financial interests for member states, therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ this is merely a procedural vote allowing croatia to join the ec’s financial interests. we are against the ec creating financial interests for member states, therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am joining my socialist colleagues in welcoming croatia’s accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities’ financial interests (or pif for short), but although this accession is not particularly problematic, i stress the need for negotiations on the pif directive to be revised so that it can properly tackle fraud when accessing the budget of the eu.
madam president, let us be quite clear that in the united kingdom the migration issue is not the refugee crisis – 96% of those who come to the uk are economic migrants, whether from the eu or from outside the eu. we now have a massive over-supply of unskilled labour in the united kingdom. the bank of england says that, for a 10% increase in immigration, in certain sectors wages are cut by an average of 1.88%. you can bet your bottom euro that it is worse in my constituency in the north-east of england, where we have the highest unemployment in the land. so today’s vote for jobcentres to be forced to advertise across the european union when there are vacancies for cv matching, etc, will only drive more people to the uk, when of course people are already driven to the uk because english is a global language. so we can forget the emergency brake, because in one fell swoop – in one vote – we have done more damage than that could possibly repair. yet labour seem perfectly content to vote in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation. eures is an eu website that advertises british jobs across europe. it creates a clear obligation for ‘public employment services’ to post all publically advertised jobs on to eures. in the uk this means that uk jobcentre plus will have to advertise all its jobs across europe. the new rules allow private employment services to apply and advertise across europe and also create an automated job matching to cv which will fast track the process of british jobs being taken by eu nationals. the ‘opt-out’ for employers as written in the rules changes the current system. at the moment in the uk an employer has a voluntary opt-in to eures. these rules say they can only exempt a vacancy if it is ‘duly justified’. however there is no justification for this term. in any case, this new legislation will increase the amount of uk jobs advertised across europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation. eures is an eu website that advertises british jobs across europe. it creates a clear obligation for ‘public employment services’ to post all publically advertised jobs on to eures. in the uk this means that uk jobcentre plus will have to advertise all its jobs across europe. the new rules allow private employment services to apply and advertise across europe and also create an automated job matching to cv which will fast track the process of british jobs being taken by eu nationals. the ‘opt-out’ for employers as written in the rules changes the current system. at the moment in the uk an employer has a voluntary opt-in to eures. these rules say they can only exempt a vacancy if it is ‘duly justified’. however there is no justification for this term. in any case, this new legislation will increase the amount of uk jobs advertised across europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation. eures is an eu website that advertises british jobs across europe. it creates a clear obligation for ‘public employment services’ to post all publically advertised jobs on to eures. in the uk this means that uk jobcentre plus will have to advertise all its jobs across europe. the new rules allow private employment services to apply and advertise across europe and also create an automated job matching to cv which will fast track the process of british jobs being taken by eu nationals. the ‘opt-out’ for employers as written in the rules changes the current system. at the moment in the uk an employer has a voluntary opt-in to eures. these rules say they can only exempt a vacancy if it is ‘duly justified’. however there is no justification for this term. in any case, this new legislation will increase the amount of uk jobs advertised across europe.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislation. eures is an eu website that advertises british jobs across europe. it creates a clear obligation for ‘public employment services’ to post all publically advertised jobs on to eures. in the uk this means that uk jobcentre plus will have to advertise all its jobs across europe. the new rules allow private employment services to apply and advertise across europe and also create an automated job matching to cv which will fast track the process of british jobs being taken by eu nationals. the ‘opt-out’ for employers as written in the rules changes the current system. at the moment in the uk an employer has a voluntary opt-in to eures. these rules say they can only exempt a vacancy if it is ‘duly justified’. however there is no justification for this term. in any case, this new legislation will increase the amount of uk jobs advertised across europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation. eures is an eu website that advertises british jobs across europe. it creates a clear obligation for ‘public employment services’ to post all publically advertised jobs on to eures. in the uk this means that uk jobcentre plus will have to advertise all its jobs across europe. the new rules allow private employment services to apply and advertise across europe and also create an automated job matching to cv which will fast track the process of british jobs being taken by eu nationals. the ‘opt-out’ for employers as written in the rules changes the current system. at the moment in the uk an employer has a voluntary opt-in to eures. these rules say they can only exempt a vacancy if it is ‘duly justified’. however there is no justification for this term. in any case, this new legislation will increase the amount of uk jobs advertised across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes a regulation on a european network of employment services, workers’ access to mobility services and the further integration of labour markets; all measures that are key to tackling unemployment. i particularly welcome that this proposal will make the eures network a key tool for jobseekers and employers by creating the largest framework of vacancies and jobseeker profiles in the eu, while ensuring that labour market policy remains a member state competence.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislation. eures is an eu website that advertises british jobs across europe. it creates a clear obligation for ‘public employment services’ to post all publically advertised jobs on to eures. in the uk this means that uk jobcentre plus will have to advertise all its jobs across europe. the new rules allow private employment services to apply and advertise across europe and also create an automated job matching to cv which will fast track the process of british jobs being taken by eu nationals. the ‘opt-out’ for employers as written in the rules changes the current system. at the moment in the uk an employer has a voluntary opt-in to eures. these rules say they can only exempt a vacancy if it is ‘duly justified’. however there is no justification for this term. in any case, this new legislation will increase the amount of uk jobs advertised across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the freedom of movement of workers has been a great success for european economies and societies. my own country has welcomed thousands of eu citizens into its workforce just as many scots have opted to go elsewhere to work. these opportunities are now under threat as a result of the uk referendum and it will be an outrage if scotland is dragged out of europe against the voters’ wishes.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislation. eures is an eu website that advertises british jobs across europe. it creates a clear obligation for ‘public employment services’ to post all publically advertised jobs on to eures. in the uk this means that uk jobcentre plus will have to advertise all its jobs across europe. the new rules allow private employment services to apply and advertise across europe and also create an automated job matching to cv which will fast track the process of british jobs being taken by eu nationals. the ‘opt-out’ for employers as written in the rules changes the current system. at the moment in the uk an employer has a voluntary opt-in to eures. these rules say they can only exempt a vacancy if it is ‘duly justified’. however there is no justification for this term. in any case, this new legislation will increase the amount of uk jobs advertised across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as its aim is to help fight unemployment by better matching labour market supply and demand. updated rules will also pay more attention to cross-border regions and young people.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislation. eures is an eu website that advertises british jobs across europe. it creates a clear obligation for "public employment services" to post all publically advertised jobs on to eures. in the uk this means that uk jobcentre plus will have to advertise all its jobs across europe. the new rules allow private employment services to apply and advertise across europe and also create an automated job matching to cv which will fast track british jobs being taken by eu nationals. the "opt-out" for employers as written in the rules changes the current system. at the moment in the uk an employer has a voluntary opt-in to eures. these rules say they can only exempt a vacancy if it is "duly justified". however there is no justification for this term. in any case this new legislation will increase the amount of uk jobs advertised across europe.
in writing. ‒ i am proud to have been involved in the technical trialogues between the european parliament, the council and the commission. i do not think it would be too grandiose to suggest that this reform – which is indeed quite technical – might be a microcosm of the european union as a whole: through collaboration, consensus and respect between everyone involved. social partnership was easily weaved throughout the legislation and we have really created a better and more effective eures network and portal. i believe that we have created an instrument that will improve the lives of job-seekers across europe, and especially for job-seekers in the west midlands. at the moment, the eures instrument simply does not work and the distribution of jobs is far from proportionate, with the uk offering far more than most other countries, which makes for a raw deal for our job-seekers. this revision to eures will make sure that more jobs will be available in more locations and automatically match cvs with appropriate vacancies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft legislative motion; it is important that workers are able to exercise their right of free movement across the european union, this is to help rectify skill shortages and prevent bottle necks. however this needs to be approached in a fair way that allows people of all skill levels to apply their skills. i agree that member states should be able ‘to exclude certain vacancies for apprenticeships and traineeships due to the differences in their educational systems and their active labour market policies.’ this should allow member states to maintain flexibility in their education and training policies. what is vital to maintain here is the balance between the active policy that is required from the european union to ensure that progress is made and that coordination is improved, but that this is matched by the recognition that labour market is a member state competence beyond the specifics of the treaty in regard to the single employment market.
in writing. ‒ european labour market policies have a great economic potential and can also break down barriers between citizens, fostering meaningful exchange and understanding. such labour market policies must take into account the obstacles encountered by those facing multiple discrimination, such as women in sectors where they are underrepresented, ethnic minorities, migrants, refugees and asylum seekers, lgbti persons, or persons with disabilities. there must be a particular effort to promote the representation of women in steam (science, technology, engineering, arts and maths). european policy on employment services must be compatible with equivalent policies in education, vocational training, and life-long learning.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations, especially when it inaccurately claims that such preferences will prevent terrorism. we find the claim that poverty drives terrorism to be insulting to the millions of poor but peaceful people in the world. therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency i wish to confirm i voted against this report. this report is giving tunisia trade preference over other countries in the misguided belief it will prevent people turning to isis. this notion presented here by the eu has been proved to based on fantasy and not facts. this is a dangerous precedent to set. a healthy economy will not stop people supporting terrorism; poor people do not automatically support isis. it is offensive to suggest so.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations, especially when it inaccurately claims such preferences will prevent terrorism. we find the claim that poverty drives terrorism to be insulting to the millions of poor but peaceful people in the world. therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations, especially when it inaccurately claims that such preferences will prevent terrorism. we find the claim that poverty drives terrorism to be insulting to the millions of poor but peaceful people in the world. therefore we voted against.
in writing. – ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations, especially when it inaccurately claims that such preferences will prevent terrorism. we find the claim that poverty drives terrorism to be insulting to the millions of poor but peaceful people in the world. therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations, especially when it inaccurately claims that such preferences will prevent terrorism. we find the claim that poverty drives terrorism to be insulting to the millions of poor but peaceful people in the world. therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. tunisia’s ability to consolidate the ongoing democratic transition will be key to bringing back stability to the eu neighbourhood, and economic development will be key in making this happen. therefore it is important that the eu supports tunisia where it can, including through the introduction of trade measures.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations, especially when it inaccurately claims that such preferences will prevent terrorism. we find the claim that poverty drives terrorism to be insulting to the millions of poor but peaceful people in the world. therefore we voted against.
in writing. – ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations, especially when it inaccurately claims that such preferences will prevent terrorism. we find the claim that poverty drives terrorism to be insulting to the millions of poor but peaceful people in the world. therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to maintain tariff-free olive oil imports to the eu. this proposal has raised objections from certain players in the european olive oil industry. the quantities of tunisian oil involved however should not have a major impact on eu producers and it is in our own interests to give backing to the tunisian economy.
in writing. – ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations, especially when it inaccurately claims that such preferences will prevent terrorism. we find the claim that poverty drives terrorism to be insulting to the millions of poor but peaceful people in the world. therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ in recent months i have noted with concern the rising levels of unemployment and protests which have started to take place as a result. i want to see tunisia’s economic and social development continue and therefore i supported these temporary and exceptional measures.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations, especially when it inaccurately claims that such preferences will prevent terrorism. we find the claim that poverty drives terrorism to be insulting to the millions of poor but peaceful people in the world. therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i have long supported any measure to aid tunisia in its transition to democracy. it has been a success story for the region, in my view. the vote today represents a concrete measure to deliver on these promises, which help the tunisian economy and boost jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against approving giving eur 1 095 544 (60 % of the match funding) of british taxpayers money through the globalisation adjustment fund (eu dole money) to 412 workers in belgium who have lost their jobs.
in writing. ‒ i wish to confirm i voted against this report. the report wanted to approve giving eur 1 095 544 (60% of the match funding) through the global adjustment fund (eu dole money) to 412 workers in belgium who have lost their jobs. the belgian government submitted the request in 2015 when two production plants in wallonia were shut down. the main reasons for the closures were as a result of strong competition and overcapacity in asia. that’s eur 2 659 per person!! job-seeker allowances should be a national government expenditure. united kingdom taxpayers should not be contributing to this.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against approving giving eur 1 095 544 (60 % of the match funding) of british taxpayers money through the globalisation adjustment fund (eu dole money) to 412 workers in belgium who have lost their jobs.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against approving giving eur 1 095 544 (60 % of the match funding) of british taxpayers money through the globalisation adjustment fund (eu dole money) to 412 workers in belgium who have lost their jobs.
in writing. – ukip voted against approving giving eur 1 095 544 (60 % of the match funding) of british taxpayers money through the globalisation adjustment fund (eu dole money) to 412 workers in belgium who have lost their jobs.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures, and so i voted in favour of this application. i regret that the uk government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against approving giving eur 1 095 544 (60 % of the match funding) of british taxpayers money through the globalisation adjustment fund (eu dole money) to 412 workers in belgium who have lost their jobs.
in writing. – ukip voted against approving giving eur 1 095 544 (60 % of the match funding) of british taxpayers money through the globalisation adjustment fund (eu dole money) to 412 workers in belgium who have lost their jobs.
in writing. – ukip voted against approving giving eur 1 095 544 (60 % of the match funding) of british taxpayers money through the globalisation adjustment fund (eu dole money) to 412 workers in belgium who have lost their jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate in the labour market workers made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against approving giving eur 1 095 544 (60 % of the match funding) of british taxpayers money through the globalisation adjustment fund (eu dole money) to 412 workers in belgium who have lost their jobs.
in writing. ‒ the tories fail to apply for the fund where it is desperately needed – such as with the closure of the steel industry in the uk. belgium’s application will show to the uk government the positive effects that this fund has and how solidarity with our brothers and sisters across the eu is the best course of action.
in writing. ‒ ukip objects to the powers of the eu to oversee and instruct national parliaments as to their economic policy, as by doing so the eu in effect overrides the democratic will of the peoples of its member states. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency i would like to confirm i voted against this report. this report outlines the european union’s economic priorities for 2016. the commission has carried out surveillance on member states and this is its report card. it is an affront to the sovereignty of the democratically elected national governments who should decide their own country’s economic policies. the commission should not be able to force member states to change their financial processes and policies. the eurozone crisis has only proven that one size does not fit all.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative non-binding report. ukip objects to the powers of the eu to oversee and instruct national parliaments as to their economic policy, as by doing so the eu in effect overrides the democratic will of the peoples of its member states. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip objects to the powers of the eu to oversee and instruct national parliaments as to their economic policy, as by doing so the eu in effect overrides the democratic will of the peoples of its member states. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non legislative non—binding report. ukip objects to the powers of the eu to oversee and instruct national parliaments as to their economic policy, as by doing so the eu in effect overrides the democratic will of the peoples of its member states. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given it now clearly states that due to the slowdown in the world economy, the eu should increase internal demand in order to increase the growth potential. the euro-area aggregate fiscal stance also needs to be considered and not only individual member states with an exclusive focus on deficit countries, as is the case today. surplus countries need to make a greater effort in increasing wages and internal demand. for the uk, it is of paramount importance that the euro area, the most important trade partner for the uk, undertakes proper structural economic reforms.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative non—binding report. ukip objects to the powers of the eu to oversee and instruct national parliaments as to their economic policy, as by doing so the eu in effect overrides the democratic will of the peoples of its member states. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non legislative non—binding report. ukip objects to the powers of the eu to oversee and instruct national parliaments as to their economic policy, as by doing so the eu in effect overrides the democratic will of the peoples of its member states. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the importance of social and environmental indicators being taken seriously in the correction of economic balances. i consider that annual growth should not be looked at in economic terms alone; it is vital that social factors are also included in the equation.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non legislative non—binding report. ukip objects to the powers of the eu to oversee and instruct national parliaments as to their economic policy, as by doing so the eu in effect overrides the democratic will of the peoples of its member states. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. at a time of several crises, we need to reinforce the eu’s internal cohesion with a stronger and more balanced economic recovery. what europe needs today is a stronger focus on investment and domestic demand. at the same time, a second generation of reforms needs to take place, improving education, innovation, public administration, tax collection and ensuring sustainable and fair welfare systems which reduce social inequalities.
in writing. ‒ ukip objects to the powers of the eu to oversee and instruct national parliaments as to their economic policy, as by doing so the eu in effect overrides the democratic will of the peoples of its member states. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i would like to congratulate ms. rodrigues on the sterling work that she has done on this text that was adopted today. the eu, in my view, and the view of many socialists across this chamber, cannot rely on exports any longer, especially with the slowdown of the global economy in the last decade. there is a need for surplus countries to expand their budgets so as to support investment and growth elsewhere and everywhere in the eu, while at the same time allowing for more fiscal wriggle room for countries with large deficits so that more and better investment can be made to encourage growth and put these states on the road to recovery.
in writing. ‒ it is important to continuously reiterate the call for a strong social dimension to the european semester and country-specific recommendations, in order to arrive at growth which is truly inclusive and sustainable. terms like ‘structural reforms’, ‘fiscal consolidation’, and ‘budgetary responsibility’ cannot remain coded jargon for harmful austerity policies, which hurt the most vulnerable in society and strangle economic growth. instead, structural reforms must entail meaningful change towards delivering a higher quality of social services to those who need them most, and enabling effective social investment and financing to stimulate inclusive and sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called on the unelected eu commission to initiate new legislation monitoring the spending of taxpayers’ money. the report calls for things like interfering with member states’ social protection, tax policies and tax rules, welcomes the eu commission’s initiative on the long-term unemployed, calls to enhance the youth guarantee scheme, calls on the commission and the member states to work together on removing the obstacles to fair labour mobility and calls for better coordination of the european semester, specifically for the eurozone.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency i would like to confirm i voted against this report. it is another example of the european union interfering in the sovereignty of member states. unemployment in my constituency is the highest in the uk. this report will not reduce unemployment in my constituency. it will not increase wages in my constituency. it will not create jobs in the north east. the eu will not reduce the levels of unemployment in the north east; it is a job for the uk government.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called on the unelected eu commission to initiate new legislation monitoring the spending of taxpayers’ money. the report calls for things like interfering with member states’ social protection, tax policies and tax rules, welcomes the eu commission’s initiative on the long-term unemployed, calls to enhance the youth guarantee scheme, calls on the commission and the member states to work together on removing the obstacles to fair labour mobility and calls for better coordination of the european semester, specifically for the eurozone.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called on the unelected eu commission to initiate new legislation monitoring the spending of taxpayers’ money. the report calls for things like interfering with member states’ social protection, tax policies and tax rules, welcomes the eu commission’s initiative on the long-term unemployed, calls to enhance the youth guarantee scheme, calls on the commission and the member states to work together on removing the obstacles to fair labour mobility and calls for better coordination of the european semester, specifically for the eurozone.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called on the unelected eu commission to initiate new legislation monitoring the spending of taxpayers’ money. the report calls for things like interfering with member states’ social protection, tax policies and tax rules, welcomes the eu commission’s initiative on the long-term unemployed, calls to enhance the youth guarantee scheme, calls on the commission and the member states to work together on removing the obstacles to fair labour mobility and calls for better coordination of the european semester, specifically for the eurozone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as quality jobs, equal opportunities and fair mobility are the basis for european upward social convergence. socially responsible reforms must be based on solidarity, integration, social justice and fair wealth distribution.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called on the unelected eu commission to initiate new legislation monitoring the spending of taxpayers’ money. the report calls for things like interfering with member states’ social protection, tax policies and tax rules, welcomes the eu commission’s initiative on the long-term unemployed, calls to enhance the youth guarantee scheme, calls on the commission and the member states to work together on removing the obstacles to fair labour mobility and calls for better coordination of the european semester, specifically for the eurozone.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called on the unelected eu commission to initiate new legislation monitoring the spending of taxpayers’ money. the report calls for things like interfering with member states’ social protection, tax policies and tax rules, welcomes the eu commission’s initiative on the long-term unemployed, calls to enhance the youth guarantee scheme, calls on the commission and the member states to work together on removing the obstacles to fair labour mobility and calls for better coordination of the european semester, specifically for the eurozone.
in writing. ‒ this report specifically calls for more access to affordable childcare. just yesterday the scottish parliament approved the coming year’s scottish budget which includes a commitment to 1 140 hours free childcare for three and four year olds. the scottish government is working to keep scotland in the european mainstream and i welcome today’s report.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called on the unelected eu commission to initiate new legislation monitoring the spending of taxpayers’ money. the report calls for things like interfering with member states’ social protection, tax policies and tax rules, welcomes the eu commission’s initiative on the long-term unemployed, calls to enhance the youth guarantee scheme, calls on the commission and the member states to work together on removing the obstacles to fair labour mobility and calls for better coordination of the european semester, specifically for the eurozone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. quality jobs, equal opportunities and fair mobility are the basis for european upward social convergence. socially responsible reforms must be based on solidarity, integration, social justice and fair wealth distribution.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called on the unelected eu commission to initiate new legislation monitoring the spending of taxpayers’ money. the report calls for things like interfering with member states’ social protection, tax policies and tax rules, welcomes the eu commission’s initiative on the long-term unemployed, calls to enhance the youth guarantee scheme, calls on the commission and the member states to work together on removing the obstacles to fair labour mobility and calls for better coordination of the european semester, specifically for the eurozone.
in writing. ‒ in order to create stable and progressive social convergence, there must be jobs available for people. we must aim to make these quality jobs, without the precariousness that the tory government is dead set on making commonplace. opportunities to work must be made more equal, tearing down unsettling and ridiculous forms of discrimination based on gender, race, ethnicity, sexuality, religion and disability. socially responsible reforms must promote fair mobility and be based on solidarity, integration, social justice and fair wealth distribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution for a motion. it is vital that the recent overemphasis on fiscal correction is at least slowed and where possible reversed. there has not, in recent times, been enough emphasis on the social and long-term economic costs of this form of reform. it is vital that we properly invest in young people and their skills. any fiscal correction needs to be based on solidarity, integration, social justice and a fair distribution of wealth; otherwise it only ends up denying people the chance for gainful employment and fuels social inequality. there needs to a rapid and effective response at both ends of the age scale, both for young people, particularly the 12.3% of young people who are not in education or training, but also those aged 55+ who are finding it very difficult to re-enter the labour market. both of these groups represent human resources that are being wasted by overzealous fiscal correction which is undermining programmes that can provide them with the skills that they need. we need to recognise the importance of investing in people to improve growth.
in writing. ‒ i would like to reiterate that serious political commitment is required in order to meet the europe 2020 anti-poverty targets, and such a commitment would require tackling gender inequalities. as such, i echo this report’s concerns about the social impacts of structural reform policies that have been implemented across the eu so far, and highlight that they have had a disproportionate negative impact on women, thereby also affecting children and other dependents. likewise i support the report’s mention of the importance of the social economy, and reiterate the role that cooperatives, mutuals and similar alternative business models can play in stimulating inclusive and sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ this is an initiative report and is not legislative. ukip has voted against this report as we are against further eu governance. we particularly oppose statements in this report that criticise national governments’ transposition of eu legislation. we have, however, voted in favour of amendment 1 which, although far from perfect, removes the criticism that national regulations create barriers in the single market. moreover, this amendment also removes calling on the commission to do anything, which we fully support.
in writing. ‒ this is an initiative report and is not legislative. ukip has voted against this report as we are against further eu governance. we particularly oppose statements in this report that criticise national governments’ transposition of eu legislation. we have, however, voted in favour of amendment 1 which, although far from perfect, removes the criticism that national regulations create barriers in the single market. moreover, this amendment also removes calling on the commission to do anything, which we fully support.
in writing. ‒ this is an initiative report and is not legislative. ukip has voted against this report as we are against further eu governance. we particularly oppose statements in this report that criticise national governments’ transposition of eu legislation. we have, however, voted in favour of amendment 1 which, although far from perfect, removes the criticism that national regulations create barriers in the single market. moreover, this amendment also removes calling on the commission to do anything, which we fully support.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative non—binding report. ukip has voted against this report as we are against further eu governance. we particularly oppose statements in this report that criticise national governments’ transposition of eu legislation. we have, however, voted in favour of amendment 1 which, although far from perfect, removes the criticism that national regulations create barriers in the single market. moreover, this amendment also removes calling on the commission to do anything, which we fully support.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, and believe that many of the conclusions contained within it would improve the governance of the single market, which is in all member states’ economic interest. the proposals for improvements to the way in which the commission identifies and addresses gaps in the single market, and better enforcement to help ensure a level playing field are positive steps forward. i also welcome the references in the report to improving public procurement, and the efforts to address non-tariff barriers in a general sense – the subject of detailed scrutiny in my own report currently in progress. deepening the single market will have enormous economic benefits to all our economies, but especially for smes and innovative start-ups. so, in conclusion, i hope the commission will take on board the pro-competitiveness agenda and many of the positive ideas for improving the functioning of the single market contained within this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it succeeded in restating the importance of the inclusion of a single market pillar in the european semester process highlighting the significant contribution for jobs and growth that could derive from the effective completion of the single market. a more coherent policy mix, focused on investments, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility, along with stronger democratic accountability, are deemed essential within the european semester.
in writing. ‒ this is an initiative report and is not legislative. ukip has voted against this report as we are against further eu governance. we particularly oppose statements in this report that criticise national governments’ transposition of eu legislation. we have, however, voted in favour of amendment 1 which, although far from perfect, removes the criticism that national regulations create barriers in the single market. moreover, this amendment also removes calling on the commission to do anything, which we fully support.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative non-binding report. ukip has voted against this report as we are against further eu governance. we particularly oppose statements in this report that criticise national governments’ transposition of eu legislation. we have, however, voted in favour of amendment 1 which, although far from perfect, removes the criticism that national regulations create barriers in the single market. moreover, this amendment also removes calling on the commission to do anything, which we fully support.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative non—binding report. ukip has voted against this report as we are against further eu governance. we particularly oppose statements in this report that criticise national governments’ transposition of eu legislation. we have, however, voted in favour of amendment 1 which, although far from perfect, removes the criticism that national regulations create barriers in the single market. moreover, this amendment also removes calling on the commission to do anything, which we fully support.
in writing. ‒ the draft report was encouraging and i recognise that the rapporteur made an effort to include some input from my political group but, unfortunately, the right wing of parliament forced a series of changes with unacceptable wording. i favoured amendments focused on the need to make the single market compatible with the localisation of economic activities, investments in the green economy, public authorities’ right to regulate in the public interest, and high social and environmental standards in public procurement. whilst there are many elements in this report which i can support, on balance i consider that the right of this house has had too much influence and i could accordingly not endorse the final resolution.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative non-binding report. ukip has voted against this report as we are against further eu governance. we particularly oppose statements in this report that criticise national governments’ transposition of eu legislation. we have, however, voted in favour of amendment 1 which, although far from perfect, removes the criticism that national regulations create barriers in the single market. moreover, this amendment also removes calling on the commission to do anything, which we fully support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. to deliver effectively on jobs, growth and competitiveness, the progress of integration of the member states in the single market must be accompanied by better governance and greater transparency, including the enforcement and implementation of existing eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ this is an initiative report and is not legislative. ukip has voted against this report as we are against further eu governance. we particularly oppose statements in this report that criticise national governments’ transposition of eu legislation. we have, however, voted in favour of amendment 1 which, although far from perfect, removes the criticism that national regulations create barriers in the single market. moreover, this amendment also removes calling on the commission to do anything, which we fully support.
in writing. ‒ the untapped potential of the single market is estimated at over eur 1 trillion, and is an opportunity and a wake-up call to ensure that the single market can benefit us all. the single market has the potential to create jobs and growth for all, and this prospect has been identified at eu level. despite all the work on this at national level, there has been little progress in the integration and exploitation of this potential resource. my colleague, catherine stihler, has done a tremendous job in addressing a lot of the major barriers to realising one of the eu’s biggest and valuable resources.
in writing. ‒ i recognise the enormous importance of the european single market in the 21st century, particularly in the field of digital and ict technologies. as the digital single market is expanded, the eu must also ensure inclusive access to the internet and other technologies, and promote a high degree of digital literacy, ict education and life-long learning. particularly, it must strive for the inclusion of women and girls in fields of ict, steam (science, technology, engineering, arts and maths) and entrepreneurship. likewise, the eu must ensure that internet rights and freedoms are upheld, with a balance between freedom of expression, privacy and online safety.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations. therefore, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i would like to confirm in the interest of transparency that i voted against this report as a whole. i believe in free trade but i do not trust the european union to negotiate this trade agreement in the best interests of the united kingdom. the uk taxpayer has already contributed towards a eur 300 million loan to tunisia to help keep its economy afloat. in a few weeks’ time, when the uk votes to leave the european union, the uk government will be able to start its own negotiations for free trade with tunisia.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations. therefore, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations. therefore, we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations. therefore, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ as a strong proponent of free trade, i voted in favour of supporting the eu-tunisia free trade agreement resolution. whilst this will have economic benefits for both sides, this move will also help support an important ally in north africa, help modernise the tunisian economy and create the growth and jobs needed to help stabilise the tunisian economy. it will also help support tunisia’s transition into a vibrant, modern democracy – something strategically vital for british interests in a region experiencing political instability. this resolution is ambitious in scope and includes the main economic sectors which are beneficial for both sides. the resolution also gives tunisia enough time to adapt to the new market conditions which it will be required to uphold.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations. therefore, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations. therefore, we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations. therefore, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. tunisia has faced many challenges in the last few years and we must continue to encourage those who support stability and democracy. the eu should enter trade negotiations with tunisia and in due course any final package will come back before this house.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations. therefore, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as i want to help tunisia on its path to reform, further inclusive growth and the creation of high—quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not oppose the concept of trade with all countries. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct our trade negotiations. therefore, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ as i have said in the past, tunisia remains a priority not only for me but for the rest of the socialist group in the parliament. this vote represents two things: how far tunisia has come since its political upheaval at the end of 2010 and the preparedness of the eu to reach out to this new democracy.
in writing. ‒ trade policy must always put people and planet before narrow profit-making, as per the alternative trade mandate. strengthening economic ties and stimulating business in the eu’s relationship with tunisia is hugely important, but it must also be accompanied with a human element. the economic benefit from a trade deal with tunisia should be shown to benefit tunisian citizens and consumers, as well as those most vulnerable in society. cultural exchange must also follow, creating true dialogue between eu member states and tunisia, strengthening civil society engagement and paving the way for collaboration in a number of fields such as cultural and social entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report (which was an ‘own initiative report’ and therefore not legislative) because it contained a call for an increase in the budget of the ombudsman. ukip is opposed in principle to any increases in expenditure and thus the burden on the uk taxpayer arising from membership of the eu.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency i would like to confirm that i voted against this report. i approve of the investigations into revolving-door activities and corruption among senior bureaucrats, but i feel more could be done to combat this. i cannot overlook the lack of transparency with regard to the negotiations on ttip or the suggested increase in the ombudsman’s budget.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report (which was an ‘own initiative report’ and therefore not legislative) because it contained a call for an increase in the budget of the ombudsman. ukip is opposed in principle to any increases in expenditure and thus the burden on the uk taxpayer arising from membership of the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report (which was an ‘own initiative report’ and therefore not legislative) because it contained a call for an increase in the budget of the ombudsman. ukip is opposed in principle to any increases in expenditure and thus the burden on the uk taxpayer arising from membership of the eu.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report (which was an ‘own initiative report’ and therefore not legislative) because it contained a call for an increase in the budget of the ombudsman. ukip is opposed in principle to any increases in expenditure and thus the burden on the uk taxpayer arising from membership of the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report (which was an ‘own initiative report’ and therefore not legislative) because it contained a call for an increase in the budget of the ombudsman. ukip is opposed in principle to any increases in expenditure and thus the burden on the uk taxpayer arising from membership of the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report (which was an ‘own initiative report’ and therefore not legislative) because it contained a call for an increase in the budget of the ombudsman. ukip is opposed in principle to any increases in expenditure and thus the burden on the uk taxpayer arising from membership of the eu.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report (which was an ‘own initiative report’ and therefore not legislative) because it contained a call for an increase in the budget of the ombudsman. ukip is opposed in principle to any increases in expenditure and thus the burden on the uk taxpayer arising from membership of the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the importance of transparency in the ongoing ttip negotiations. the eu’s negotiators must pay heed to this as this house will not accept any attempts to have our voice silenced on this issue.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report (which was an ‘own initiative report’ and therefore not legislative) because it contained a call for an increase in the budget of the ombudsman. ukip is opposed in principle to any increases in expenditure and thus the burden on the uk taxpayer arising from membership of the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report (which was an ‘own initiative report’ and therefore not legislative) because it contained a call for an increase in the budget of the ombudsman. ukip is opposed in principle to any increases in expenditure and thus the burden on the uk taxpayer arising from membership of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of this motion for resolution on the activities of the european ombudsman, emily o’reilly. while acknowledging that transparency is an ongoing process, where there is almost always room for improvement in any institution or organisation, i feel that the ombudsman made excellent progress in many areas in 2014. due to the ombudsman’s inquiries, the commission has released a variety of documents that have proved invaluable to improving transparency, including on the greek entry into the eurozone. also the european central bank has disclosed the contents of a letter to the irish government on the financial crisis, and the commission has followed the ombudsman’s recommendation to release documents on the reform of the common fisheries policy, although this was after reform had been agreed. i was therefore happy to vote positively in regards to the ombudsman’s activities in 2014. it is vital that the ombudsman is congratulated for her proactive work and encouraged to go further in the future. this can only be an advantage to european union and its institutions.
in writing. ‒ the report includes a call for the ecb to initiate legislation to permit the eu to take as its ‘own resources’ the profits of the ecb – profits which currently are distributed to eurozone member states. ukip objects to the activities of the ecb and, as the uk is a shareholder in the ecb, ukip accordingly voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ this is a welcome resolution on the latest annual report from the european central bank, especially the european parliament’s call for further efforts to improve the financing of the real economy, and the emphasis on continuing to increase the democratic accountability of the ecb as a priority. it is positive that the ecb acknowledges the importance of helping small businesses to access finance, for example as a result of the credit-easing package of june 2014. however, i particularly endorse the comments made by socialists and democrats and other colleagues in the debate on failure of the ecb sufficiently to address the negative jobs impact of its actions generally and through its involvement in programmes in particular member states. as an eu institution, the ecb is bound under article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to take into account the requirement to promote employment and social protection and to combat social exclusion in defining and implementing its policies and activities.
in writing. ‒ i would like to confirm i voted against this report. the report calls for the european central bank (ecb) to initialise legislation which it is allowed to do under the lisbon treaty. i do not support further european legislation. the ecb makes profits from the loans it gives to member states such as greece. this report calls for the profits made from the financial suffering of member states to be given to the european union as ‘own resources’. the eu does not have its ‘own’ resources; it makes money out of european taxpayers and this case is no different.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative non-binding report. the report includes a call for the ecb to initiate legislation to permit the eu to take as its ‘own resources’ the profits of the ecb – profits which currently are distributed to eurozone member states. ukip objects to the activities of the ecb and, as the uk is a shareholder in the ecb, ukip accordingly voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report includes a call for the ecb to initiate legislation to permit the eu to take as its ‘own resources’ the profits of the ecb – profits which currently are distributed to eurozone member states. ukip objects to the activities of the ecb and, as the uk is a shareholder in the ecb, ukip accordingly voted against the report.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non legislative non-binding report. the report includes a call for the ecb to initiate legislation to permit the eu to take as its ‘own resources’ the profits of the ecb – profits which currently are distributed to eurozone member states. ukip objects to the activities of the ecb and, as the uk is a shareholder in the ecb, ukip accordingly voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual ecb report as it is a positive but still critical report recognising the important role the ecb plays in the recovery of the european economy, in the special programmes it has set up and as european banking supervisor.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative non-binding report. the report includes a call for the ecb to initiate legislation to permit the eu to take as its ‘own resources’ the profits of the ecb – profits which currently are distributed to eurozone member states. ukip objects to the activities of the ecb and, as the uk is a shareholder in the ecb, ukip accordingly voted against the report.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non legislative non-binding report. the report includes a call for the ecb to initiate legislation to permit the eu to take as its ‘own resources’ the profits of the ecb – profits which currently are distributed to eurozone member states. ukip objects to the activities of the ecb and, as the uk is a shareholder in the ecb, ukip accordingly voted against the report.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non legislative non-binding report. the report includes a call for the ecb to initiate legislation to permit the eu to take as its ‘own resources’ the profits of the ecb – profits which currently are distributed to eurozone member states. ukip objects to the activities of the ecb and, as the uk is a shareholder in the ecb, ukip accordingly voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report includes a call for the ecb to initiate legislation to permit the eu to take as its ‘own resources’ the profits of the ecb – profits which currently are distributed to eurozone member states. ukip objects to the activities of the ecb and, as the uk is a shareholder in the ecb, ukip accordingly voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ despite the uk not being a member of the eurozone (and it does not look like it is going to join the currency union in the near future), the ecb plays an important role in the eu and for the prosperity for those inside and outside the eurozone. britain has a vested interest in the success of the eurozone and the efficiency of the ecb, the european central bank. the role that the ecb plays in regards to its non-conventional monetary policy operations is positive and vital. but, in my view, there are limits to what monetary policy can achieve, and structural reforms are needed and investments need to be more targeted if we are going to be able to see a real difference to people’s lives and lift people’s standards of living across this continent.
in writing. ‒ i would like to emphasise that the european central bank must always include a social perspective in its decision-making on monetary policy. all of its innovative non-conventional policy instruments must aim to have a direct impact on the real-economy, and improve the lives of those who are most excluded, vulnerable, and marginalised in our society. the ecb must also take into account a gender perspective in all of its decision-making. as the ecb works to create favourable financing conditions for businesses, especially smes, it must take into account and give high priority to the needs of those facing obstacles in accessing finance, particularly those experiencing multiple discrimination, social marginalisation and exclusion. this includes specifically the access of women entrepreneurs to finance, particularly in vulnerable communities. the ecb and financial institutions across member states must work with stakeholders to formulate policy instruments which will allow equitable access to finance and give attention to the key role played by cooperatives and mutuals in this respect.
madam president, i would always be in favour of eu free trade agreements with democracies, but as my country, the uk, approaches its referendum on eu membership, agreements with the commonwealth countries such as australia and new zealand are particularly welcome. for many of my eurosceptic colleagues supporting the push to leave, one of the attractions is their belief that it will bring increased trade with the commonwealth and the so-called anglosphere. negotiations on the eu-canada fta have been concluded and we are now moving towards the ratification process; ttip negotiations are ongoing; and here we find ourselves now speaking of deals with australia and new zealand, not to mention the continued enthusiasm for a similar deal with india. far from the eu preventing the uk from trading with the commonwealth and the wider world, the push for ftas within the eu will soon make membership more advantageous than any independent agreements that we in the united kingdom could conclude on our own. in the ceta agreement we have seen the canadians make concessions that did not even exist within the nafta agreement with the united states, and i am confident that agreements with australia and new zealand will be equally as ambitious and beneficial to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding report, which ukip chose to abstain on. in principle ukip agrees with free trade agreements especially with our commonwealth allies, new zealand and australia. however, we are totally opposed to the eu negotiating trade agreements with other countries on the uk’s behalf, therefore we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i wish to confirm i abstained in this vote. the demands made by the eu to monitor australia and new zealand’s agriculture in return for free trade is unreasonable. i want to have a free trade agreement with commonwealth countries, outside the interference of the eu.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding report, which ukip chose to abstain on. in principle ukip agrees with free trade agreements especially with our commonwealth allies, new zealand and australia. however, we are totally opposed to the eu negotiating trade agreements with other countries on the uk’s behalf, therefore we abstained.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report . ukip yearns for the day we can make our own free trade deals with commonwealth countries. however, we feel the eu would not conduct a deal with australia or nz that was fair, honourable or in the interest of the uk, australia or new zealand. therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i fully support advocating the strongest free trade ties with the two key commonwealth members australia and new zealand, and therefore voted in favour of the opening of negotiations. i also support launching these negotiations in the shortest timeframe possible and hope, given the shared values, perspectives and economic systems of the eu, australia and new zealand, that mutually beneficial, ambitious and wide—ranging agreements can be concluded as soon as possible. australia and new zealand are two strong advocates of free trade agreement deals, with a recent example being the fta signed with the twelve pacific rim countries. that is why i would like to see an fta which promotes deeper trade and investment relations as quickly as possible, so that we can further deepen trade ties in the growing asia-pacific region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the opening of fta negotiations with australia and new zealand given the asia-pacific region, where 90% of world growth is estimated to happen over the next decade, is vital for us. with their european heritage, their relative proximity to the asian market and their membership of the tpp (trans-pacific partnership), australia and new zealand can be very important partners for us. i also welcome the strong and consistent commitment of australia and new zealand to the multilateral trade agenda and to the promotion of a global governance based on rules.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding report, which ukip chose to abstain on. in principle ukip agrees with free trade agreements especially with our commonwealth allies, new zealand and australia. however, we are totally opposed to the eu negotiating trade agreements with other countries on the uk’s behalf, therefore we abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip yearns for the day we can make our own free trade deals with commonwealth countries. however, we feel the eu would not conduct a deal with australia or nz that was fair, honourable or in the interest of the uk, australia or new zealand. therefore we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report . ukip yearns for the day we can make our own free trade deals with commonwealth countries. however, we feel the eu would not conduct a deal with australia or nz that was fair, honourable or in the interest of the uk, australia or new zealand. therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i support the opening of free trade negotiations with australia and new zealand although this does not preclude any objections i may have to any future outcome. i support scotland’s membership of the eu and will vote accordingly in the forthcoming uk referendum. the eu operates as a trading block and that implies reaching international agreements. i have deep reservations about ttip and will vote to reject an unsatisfactory agreement. nevertheless, we should not object to the eu entering into new international negotiations – which in turn can be rejected if they are ultimately unsatisfactory.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report . ukip yearns for the day we can make our own free trade deals with commonwealth countries. however, we feel the eu would not conduct a deal with australia or nz that was fair, honourable or in the interest of the uk, australia or new zealand. therefore we voted against.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding report, which ukip chose to abstain on. in principle ukip agrees with free trade agreements especially with our commonwealth allies, new zealand and australia. however, we are totally opposed to the eu negotiating trade agreements with other countries on the uk’s behalf, therefore we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the peoples of australia and new zealand share a lot of cultural and economic ties with europe. and i would like to see the strengthening of ties of the anglophone peoples of the world with the eu and join my s&d colleagues in calling for strong trade and sustainable development chapters in any newly-launched trade negotiations with these countries.
in writing. ‒ while there remains much to be done in negotiations with new zealand and australia in the area of ftas, particularly in relation to agriculture, i was happy to vote in favour of opening negotiations with australia and new zealand. these two countries represent an important market for eu nations, but are also vital international partners across a range of issues, and it makes a lot of sense to integrate them with europe through the medium of free trade agreements. i hope that these negotiations are conducted in a spirit of compromise so that a deal can be found that is mutually beneficial to all parties.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip strongly support animal welfare, also in relation to commercial practices. ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, we do not want the eu commission to produce a single regulatory framework on registration of pet animals in the eu as we believe national parliaments should decide if and how they legislate on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support animal welfare. i do not want the eu to produce a single framework for the registration of pet animals in the eu as i believe national parliaments should decide if and how to legislate on this matter.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip strongly support animal welfare, also in relation to commercial practices. ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, we do not want the eu commission to produce a single regulatory framework on registration of pet animals in the eu as we believe national parliaments should decide if and how they legislate on this issue.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip strongly support animal welfare, also in relation to commercial practices. ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, we do not want the eu commission to produce a single regulatory framework on registration of pet animals in the eu as we believe national parliaments should decide if and how they legislate on this issue.
in writing. – we in ukip strongly support animal welfare, also in relation to commercial practices. ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, we do not want the eu commission to produce a single regulatory framework on registration of pet animals in the eu as we believe national parliaments should decide if and how they legislate on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution calling for a traceability system for the movement of pet animals within and into the european union. we still need to await the outcome of the commission study into the welfare of dogs and cats in commercial practices to come to full conclusions, but it is clear there are significant public and animal health risks arising from commercial practices concerning these animals. i know from my work with the dogs trust in the west midlands that they are increasingly having to deal with the fall-out of unhealthy and often emotionally disturbed animals being imported into the uk. this situation is only likely to get worse unless we take action to tackle the illicit movement of pet animals across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals across the eu because it is key that solid measures are taken to combat the growing illegal trade in pet animals including by increasing traceability. this is vital to stop harmful practices of pet animal trafficking and improve their living conditions.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip strongly support animal welfare, also in relation to commercial practices. ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, we do not want the eu commission to produce a single regulatory framework on registration of pet animals in the eu as we believe national parliaments should decide if and how they legislate on this issue.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip strongly support animal welfare, also in relation to commercial practices. ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, we do not want the eu commission to produce a single regulatory framework on registration of pet animals in the eu as we believe national parliaments should decide if and how they legislate on this issue.
in writing. – we in ukip strongly support animal welfare, also in relation to commercial practices. ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, we do not want the eu commission to produce a single regulatory framework on registration of pet animals in the eu as we believe national parliaments should decide if and how they legislate on this issue.
in writing. – we in ukip strongly support animal welfare, also in relation to commercial practices. ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, we do not want the eu commission to produce a single regulatory framework on registration of pet animals in the eu as we believe national parliaments should decide if and how they legislate on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. member states should be encouraged to put in place measures to ensure that their pet registration systems are compatible. this would make it possible to trace the movement of pet animals throughout the eu, and could help to tackle the growing illegal trade in pets.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip strongly support animal welfare, also in relation to commercial practices. ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, we do not want the eu commission to produce a single regulatory framework on registration of pet animals in the eu as we believe national parliaments should decide if and how they legislate on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i have been calling for this for a while, and i am happy to see this finally getting into the chamber to be voted on. there is a need for more compatible systems for the registration and identification of pets. member states should be encouraged to put in place measures to ensure that their pet registration systems are compatible with one another. not only would this enable the authorities to trace the movement of pet animals throughout the eu, helping to tackle the growing illegal trade in pets, but it would improve the standard of living for these animals.
in writing. ‒ the registration of pets is an important tool in the fight to prevent abuse and combat the illicit trade in animals, two activities that often, but not exclusively have a symbiotic relationship. given the success of the policy of free movement it is only natural that there should be compatible systems for the registration of pet animals across member states to ensure that there is a proper coherence within our system to protect our pets. registration closes an important loophole, but without convergence across the single market then the job is far less than half done.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue and as such we abstained on amendment 1 and the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ firstly, i note that this is an ‘own-initiative’ report and therefore has very little, if any, actual impact upon the humanitarian situation in yemen. the proposals contained in the report have no legal force whatsoever. i agree with much of the text of this resolution. i am indeed concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian situation in yemen. i am concerned about western – and indeed british – arms exports to saudi arabia. however, at the same time i note that this report calls for action to be taken at eu level. this would be a considerable precedent to be set in terms of taking power away from the uk to make our own decisions, both on defence and trade. i do not believe in this principle. however, i do have significant concerns about our own role in the united kingdom and believe that it should be addressed by the british parliament. on balance i felt it appropriate to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue and as such we abstained on amendment 1 and the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue and as such we abstained on amendment 1 and the resolution as a whole.
in writing. – this is a non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue and as such we abstained on amendment 1 and the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue and as such we abstained on amendment 1 and the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue and as such we abstained on amendment 1 and the resolution as a whole.
in writing. – this is a non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue and as such we abstained on amendment 1 and the resolution as a whole.
in writing. – this is a non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue and as such we abstained on amendment 1 and the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as it is a clear humanitarian appeal to end the suffering of the people in yemen.
in writing. – i support this resolution as i strongly believe that the eu can and must uphold international humanitarian law. the resolution highlights that some eu member states have continued to authorise the transfers of weapons to saudi arabia in clear violation of the eu common position, despite evidence that these weapons have been used to commit human rights abuses in yemen. together with other meps, i have also raised this issue directly with the high representative for foreign affairs in a written question and i welcome the adoption of a resolution on the matter as an additional means to build up pressure on the commission and the external action service.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is concerned by the ongoing military and humanitarian crisis in yemen, in particular the role played by both saudi arabia and iran via proxies in the conflict. amendment 1 calls for an arms embargo using the eu common position on arms exports 2008/944/cfsp. whilst we are concerned by the role of western arms exports to saudi arabia, we cannot support the use of eu mechanisms to address the issue and as such we abstained on amendment 1 and the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and i believe that it represents a clear humanitarian appeal to end the bloodshed in yemen, and call on saudi arabia to pursue a political solution rather than resorting to violence. the amount of deaths in yemen should not be ignored and i welcome the european parliament vote today, which represents a serious take on the allegations of breaches of international humanitarian law by saudi arabia in yemen. so serious, i would argue, that selling arms to the regime is something that would constitute a breach of the eu’s own legally-agreed code of conduct. however, we would like to see saudi arabia as a partner and help international efforts to solve the conflicts in yemen, syria and elsewhere, but the eu has a legal and moral duty and as long as saudi arabia continues to have this level of disregard for the yemeni people, it should not receive our support. i am extremely concerned that david cameron, around the time of this vote, boasted about the trade deal that he has made with the regime, by exporting more arms to the saudi government.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in order to express my deep concern and dismay at the humanitarian situation in yemen. the international community must act to bring an end to the hostilities there, where those who pay the heaviest price, as always, are those who are most vulnerable. i have been in contact with an ogadeni journalist who has been trapped in saana for many months and have learnt from him directly of the suffering of innocent victims. no european union member state should ever sell or be complicit in the sale of weapons and military hardware which contribute to committing atrocities and to targeting civilians. this is why i support the resolution’s call for an arms embargo on saudi arabia and hope that member states’ governments, particularly my own, will heed our call.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, under rule 152(1) i am requesting that the eu—pnr directive, which is legally and technically ready, be voted this week. this request and a possible roll call vote today is not about the merits of pnr; those have been debated. today is simply about giving this house its right to vote without an undue delay. some in this house talk a lot about democracy and transparency, but at the end of the day this parliament loses credibility with the backroom deals of a few who try to manipulate our agenda to further their own political aims and priorities. the public loses faith in politics because of games, tactics and vested interests. we are a democracy; if you do not like something you vote against it and then you justify that to your electorate. you do not delay or stop it from being voted at all. my request is simple: please give me my right as rapporteur and elected member, representing my constituents, to have a vote on this directive this week. i agree with the proposal that there should be a debate at 8.30 tomorrow morning and a vote later this week. that is my proposition.
madam president, i am very grateful to ms zimmer for suggesting this because i think it is indeed essential that we take very seriously violations of human rights in our own continent and i believe that is exactly what is happening in the calais camp. i visited there myself quite recently and i was really shocked to see the way the british and french governments were not taking seriously the needs of the asylum seekers who were there. we believe very strongly that the british government should be registering refugees in that camp and should not be relying on the fact that britain is outside schengen and that they cannot reach britain to register. we believe a lot of the refugees there actually have rights to come and be reunited with their families in britain under the dublin agreement and my government is simply not taking those rights seriously. i believe that the destruction of their homes is actually a violation of their right to shelter under the un convention on human rights and i think it is very essential that as a parliament we take seriously these violations of human rights within our own continent, so i entirely support the proposal that we should debate this as one of the urgencies.
madam president, i cannot support the suggestion in this proposal this afternoon for the following reasons: the calais jungle is a result of the le touquet agreement, which is an accord between the french government and the uk government, and the european union has no right to interfere with that. secondly, the enforced closure of part of the migrant camp, the jungle, was on the basis of a french decision taken in a french law court. we have no right whatsoever to interfere with french judicial process. the third item – and i would like to ask everyone to take this into consideration – is that one of the many reasons why the migrants reacted as they did was one anarchist supported by a british charity, and i do not think we ought to support anarchists’ and activists’ work. the last point is that a lot of these migrants do not want their fingerprints to be taken. that was another reason why they reacted with the violence they did. there is absolutely no way this chamber should take any stance on this position. it is down to a situation between the uk and french governments.
madam president, i rise to express my consternation that the crisis in the pigmeat sector has been put up for debate at 15.00 on a thursday afternoon. when pig farmers throughout europe are facing serious financial difficulties, this is a slap in the face that the conference of presidents has given to the coordinators of the committee on agriculture and rural development who asked for this debate – to actively highlight this – and when we will not even have a commission representative there. so this is totally unacceptable and i hope you will have a rethink.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent job. there were a few hiccups on the way, but he certainly proved himself to be an excellent rapporteur. i think that all involved were certainly extremely happy with the way it went. i welcome the proposal. i think it will be good and i am sure that it will also send a strong message, not only to the dairy sector, but also to the fruit sector. certainly the decisions that were made – and the parliament made a large contribution – just prove that, when you work together, an awful lot more can be achieved than maybe was initially thought possible. speaking for my own region i certainly look forward to that and i know the majority of the ecr group will be voting for this. i believe that your proposal will go through. i am delighted that the overall budget part of the scheme has been extended and that the commission and parliament were able to find a way to do that. i have to say that i am glad we are having this debate this evening, but i feel it is very unfortunate that we are not having the debate on pigs immediately, when the commissioner is here. when pig farmers are being destroyed throughout europe, this parliament did not see fit to put on that debate when we had the commissioner and everybody here. this is by no means wishing to show disrespect for the rapporteur, who has done a tremendous job. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i thank my colleague for that excellent question. i am quite happy to include all fruit, the names of all fruits – pears, strawberries – as all fruit is good for you, so i do not have a problem with that. i come from the county of armagh in northern ireland and as you will know full well, madam president, we are known as the apple county of the island of ireland, from northern ireland, so certainly i would take great pleasure if i were able to promote the noble apple better in any way.
madam president, i cannot help detecting a bit of mission creep here, because health should be a competence of the member state and yet this scheme is being pushed for health reasons. perhaps i am being a bit cynical, but i cannot help feeling that the eu is trying to get its way into every aspect of our lives. i am also interested to see that the schools that go into the scheme have got to erect ‘gratitude plaques’– in other words, the picture of the blue background and the yellow stars to say how grateful everyone must be to the eu. as the children drive to school they will see gratitude plaques in the fields – the farmers have their environmental schemes – and then they go into school and there are more gratitude plaques, and this is all going to happen during our referendum campaign about british membership of the european union. call me cynical. i hope that the milk in the schools will be british milk and not irish milk, but we shall wait and see, and of course the british apple grower will not be very pleased if his product is not mentioned and bananas are. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, i can state quite categorically that health is not an eu competence in a member state. it is as simple as that. it is one of the few things that are not and i do not want to see it happen.
mr president, i would like to express my support for the supply of fruit, vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments and thank the rapporteur for his work on this important file. we should use every opportunity to provide healthy alternatives for young people at an early age, teaching the values of nutritious healthy foods and contributing to the solution of a growing obesity crisis. of course, as our rapporteur has indicated, such schemes also provide an outlet for a dairy market that has seen extremely difficult trading conditions and low prices for some time. this scheme will not only increase consumption but will be important in increasing awareness of the benefits of dairy products as well as fruit and vegetables.
mr president, firstly, let me say thank you to the rapporteur for the work on this very lengthy and important file. i am giving a cautious welcome to this report, stressing the importance of animal health and, ultimately, the protection of consumers across europe. however, we still need more scientific evidence in relation to the causes of antimicrobial resistance and how to effectively deal with that resistance. we must ensure that farmers have access to the correct tools to prevent and treat disease in animals. it is imperative that neither animal welfare nor production efficiency should be compromised as a result of the revised legislation. in relation to the reporting and enforcement of this revision, all member states must comply equally. british farmers need a level playing field and should not be expected to compete in a two-tier europe, where they face gold-plating of legislation and others across europe much less so.
mr president, the regulation of veterinary medicines is important to ensure their safety, quality and effectiveness and therefore protect animal health, public health, food safety and the environment. i recently met with the local chief veterinary officer in my own region of northern ireland as well as local representatives of the british veterinary association to discuss the wide range of issues relating to animal health, including potential problems ahead in terms of antimicrobial resistance as well as concerns about bovine tuberculosis in my own constituency. the european animal health law will consolidate 40 different pieces of outdated and often inconsistent european legislation in this field and gives a comprehensive framework for animal health in the next 20 years. we need an approach to animal health legislation that has strong focus on outcomes, regulatory simplicity and flexibility in the management of disease. this simplification and harmonisation of legislation is a good example of better regulation and an important drive away from red tape and burdensome bureaucracy. i would also like to address the rapporteur and pay tribute to marit paulsen as well. unfortunately, she is no longer with us, but she was an extremely valued member of the agriculture committee. maybe you would send her the message that we still miss her, and hopefully this will be a tribute to what she has been fighting for for so long.
mr president, the animal health law that we will vote on tomorrow responds to at least two concerns often submitted by constituents to members of the european parliament. firstly, improving the general welfare of animals through enhanced animal health measures and secondly, the issue of stray animals. on the first of these, animal diseases: just like human diseases, they do not recognise borders. britain is no less at risk of any significant animal disease outbreak than any other european country and we clearly need a strong european framework to react, to respect common rules in case of disease outbreak. on the second issue, controlling diseases amongst the populations of stray animals: no less important and requires both a clear assignment of responsibility from the national authorities as well as a requirement of humane treatment of stray animals. this law will see the european union delivering on animal health and on animal welfare, which is why staying in the european union is good for animals just as it is good for people. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– it is a good question. obviously, dogs are unaware of the schengen arrangements and are therefore entirely likely to cross borders at will where border fences do not exist, and that is the case across the european union. i therefore think the key thing here is that we need to work together, country by country, across the european union, because if countries individually try to deal with stray dogs they will not be successful. only by working together, which is clearly obvious at a european level, can we deal with the issue of stray animals and associated diseases.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, there over 300 ports in our european network, even leaving aside the very small ones, and more than three million jobs depend on the port sector directly or indirectly. especially given the diversity in size, operations and governance of eu ports, we should only regulate this sector with the utmost care. now, i should say that i am not saying this on behalf of the s&d, but i and other labour meps are not opposed to the idea of progressive balanced eu measures on ports. these could help improve standards in the sector, in the uk and across the whole of europe, on port safety and security, terms and conditions of workers, environmental protection, as well as provide a secure framework for investment. the problem is that, despite the commendable efforts of our rapporteur, this proposal, even if amended as he suggests, simply does not quite achieve the goals that i have mentioned. there are good provisions on training. there are good provisions encouraging good practice on minimum requirements on tendering, but it is not enough overall. the draft regulation is in fact an example of the spectacular double standards of the so-called better regulation agenda; for instance, the provisions to regulate port charges will undoubtedly still be an administrative burden for ports and do not give legal clarity if you read them carefully – you are still asking yourself questions about what they mean. they are also unsupported by concrete evidence from the commission of major problems in charging practices in many ports and the report by pwc – the management consultancy report that looked into this – did not uncover major problems. there has also been no updated impact assessment since at least 2012 despite the new institutional agreement on better regulation saying that these things should be updated. equally the right for trade unions to take legitimate industrial action is not sufficiently protected in article 8 and article 10 fails to provide for the compulsory transfer of staff. we were looking for something that improved workers’ rights, including in relation to how agency workers are dealt with, but it is just not there. ports will not specifically also be required to consult environmental experts and local communities. so in overall terms, please reject the commission’s proposal. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– well, in terms of the social elements, much more could have been done within the articles to reinforce the importance of that issue – for example to mention the social dialogue. although the social dialogue stakeholders think that this could have been worse and they say that overall it could be negotiated on, they are still not entirely happy. if you look at their previous positions about what they wanted, this is not what they wanted and they could quite happily live without it. i think there are very real concerns on that. in terms of the european added value, at least we are talking about the issues and that raises awareness, but i think that is as far as it goes.
blue-card question.– i see what you are saying about how full market liberalisation is no longer in this measure but, nevertheless, it does have detailed and prescriptive rules for ports to follow on contracts with service providers and public service obligations. your group in particular is often very keen to protect public services. do you not think that to present it simply as a harmless transparency measure is maybe slightly misleading?
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, following two fairly spectacular failed attempts at liberalising port service provisions, the commission has greatly scaled down its ambitions on services in an attempt to finally create a sector-specific legislation in this area. however, yet again, the port services regulation has failed to tackle the real issues in europe’s ports. it is clear that maritime transport, to which ports are vital, plays a crucial role in achieving greater sustainability in the transport sector. the greens’ political objective is to embed seaports into the wider framework of a sustainable transport policy that addresses safety, social and environmental standards, incorporates cross-border cooperation and coordination between seaports and aims to account for external costs. there is also no doubt that public finance needs transparency. we cannot talk about port services without looking at the public money flowing into the ports for their infrastructure and operations. the port services regulation could have facilitated some of those aims. unfortunately it seems clearly to fail to meet its own objectives of ensuring a more sustainable and interconnected transport network. on financial transparency, the one valid point it does contain, it still does not do enough to ensure much needed legal certainty for the sector due to the strong link between financial transparency and the commission’s envisaged state-aid guidelines and/or block exemptions for the ports. both proposals should have been developed in parallel. having first announced this initiative some 11 years ago, the commission’s news that it will not now adopt state-aid guidelines before 2017 is frustrating but somehow unsurprising. if parliament accepts this report it needs to be prepared for some serious criticism, having backed a piece of binding legislation that does very little to tackle anything at all. this legislation is undeveloped and ineffective, and i therefore call upon members to reject this report when they have the opportunity to vote tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– do you agree with me that this package, although improved, presents some of the same dangers as the proposals rejected by parliament by a big majority in 2006? it imposes additional administrative burdens on our ports, whilst not ensuring adequate protection for fundamental rights or safety at work.
blue-card answer.– i think you are entirely correct in making that assumption, and do not forget that parliament has rejected these proposals, or something very similar, twice before. there is no recognition of environmental requirements – all the references to environmental assessment, bird life, habitat, natura 2000, etc., were deleted. this is just a failed attempt to push on to parliament another unwelcome version of basically the same thing, and we should say the same: ‘no’.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the port services regulation is not required or wanted in the united kingdom. unlike most of continental europe, the uk has very competitive ports, with the lion’s share in the private sector. the eu has tried to regulate ports without success on two previous occasions and this is the third attempt. as the majority of ports in the uk are privately owned, successful and efficient, it is not for the eu to regulate british ports. with the brexit referendum on 23 june, the people of the united kingdom will vote to leave and we will free ourselves from the excessive rules, regulations and red tape imposed by this place. we will then rejoin the rest of the world and take back our freedom to run and operate our own businesses. britain has a long and proud history trading with the world and our ports are the doors to our prosperity. this port service regulation will do more harm than good, and the uk will be better off out.
mr president, first of all i would genuinely like to thank mr fleckenstein for his hard work, enduring work, on this dossier, but regrettably i do not believe that the changes have gone far enough. it was actually a conservative government in 1981 that began the process of privatising the ports in the united kingdom, and therefore i will not support anything that would jeopardise the success that this has brought to the uk economy and on growth and jobs. i would also just like to assure an earlier speaker that we are not inundated with thousands of philippino workers who are loading and unloading our ships. both conservatives and our polish colleagues and others will support a rejection of this commission proposal. we believe that competition between ports rather than prescriptive regulation on ports’ internal operations is a greater driver for efficiency. the commission’s proposal was overly-bureaucratic and does not fit well in our uk system of privatised and market-driven ports. whilst we welcome some improvements in the committee position, i am fully aware that both our uk port owners and trade unions remain firmly opposed to the proposal as it stands. the present text could still interpret the open port duty in the uk as imposing public service obligations on private ports whilst we believe that the proposal on private and trust ports does not go far enough to guarantee their exemption from the regulation. moreover, it is feared that the social provisions introduced by the rapporteur and others would gold—plate existing eu legislation dealing with the transfer of staff due to a change in the service provider as well as current ilo training and labour protection guidelines. in addition, we are disappointed that the rapporteur’s compromise package did not include smaller ports from the provisions on market opening. it is for these reasons that i have re—submitted amendments which would exempt small ports from the regulation as well as amendments reflecting competitive market exemption in order to allow a fully competitive industry to be free to procure goods and services commercially, and lastly, an amendment which would exclude all private ports from the regulation. i hope they will have majority support, although my preference will be to reject the report.
madam president, these coast ports which i represent are a major engine for jobs and growth: one million square feet of new distribution space last year at felixstowe, britain’s biggest container port; a new port at london gateway; gbp 100 million investment in the port of tilbury, adding to modern crane facilities provided with the help of the eu motorways of the sea; the port of ipswich playing a major economic role for the haven gateway, and great yarmouth for the economy in norfolk. that is why i reiterate to my friend knut fleckenstein a call to use the negotiation to promote competition between european ports. to ensure a genuine level playing field for state aids, i am worried about the proposed exemptions. i think we have to heed the warnings of the european towage association, which predicts environmental catastrophe. i do not ask him for different arrangements for the uk; instead, while the british government opposes the social and employment aspects in articles 10(2) and 10(a), i ask him to defend them and to support amendments 146 and 147, which i co—signed, on enhanced safety and collective bargaining rights. the port service regulation has been refused twice, and if jobs, employment rights, investment and safety are not guaranteed, it should be rejected again.
madam president, tilbury docks, in my constituency, is linked to one in ten jobs within thurrock. the success of those jobs relies on the success of the port. at dp world within thurrock borough, trade is growing, and this would be the worst possible time to put more regulations on them, especially as trade is growing with the rest of the world outside the eu. this is a case in point with our referendum coming up: why should eu rules affect non—eu trade that has absolutely nothing to do with the european union? we will be opposing it for those reasons. the best people to govern our ports are the people that should govern our laws – the british people themselves.
madam president, i want to speak tonight on behalf of northern ireland’s ports, which would be devastated by these proposals. this is yet another example of the eu trying to impose a one-size-fits-all solution. ports in northern ireland are already part of a thriving, competitive independent uk sector. belfast harbour handles goods valued at gbp 30 billion annually, 700 companies are based in the harbour estate, over 22 000 people are employed there. foyle port supports an estimated 1 000 jobs, representing wages of gbp 26 million annually into the local economy. no political union should seek to jeopardise these benefits for local people. what we have in this proposal are bureaucratic obstacles to growth and job creation, the imposition of excessive regulation and oversight. it penalises the ports as being service providers. of course we all know that if this gets through, it is simply the beginning. tomorrow i will be voting to reject this approach and to protect northern ireland’s economy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you to the rapporteur for his question. i want to absolutely confirm with the rapporteur that i have consulted at great length with the northern ireland ports, and the northern ireland ports are absolutely opposed to these changes. they see them as being anti-competitive, they see them as blocking growth and job creation and, in a place like belfast which is relatively small, support for 22 000 jobs is absolutely vital.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank everyone for this most interesting debate. i have listened carefully to all of the comments, but some of the information in the debate is a bit outdated. state aid exemptions have been published today. the focus is now on the modernisation of ports to make them greener, more socially responsible and more innovative. the benefits are for all ports, not only a few in the north. the text is based on clear complementarity between eu and national levels, leaving ample room to adapt to local environments. the vote will decide if it is a stable legislative framework for ports. the momentum is there to improve the functioning of the trans-european transport network to create growth in ports and through ports, which also leads to new employment opportunities. regarding some of the comments by the honourable members anderson, de grandes pascual and ayala sender as regards the autonomy of ports in setting infrastructure charges, i am open to working with you constructively to find a solution during the trilogues. like the council, some of you think that the regulation should not prevent member states from having their say on charges and port management. i hear you; be assured the commission is willing to look at this question during the trilogues. to honourable members seymour and foster i would say that as regards private ports, we are open to solutions, but they must not allow private undertakings to abuse their dominant position or distort competition with other ports. in response to honourable members taylor, delli and šoltes, allow me to highlight again the benefits the regulation brings for the environment. the internalised external cause the regulation will serve to develop a method for varying port charges according to the environmental performance of the ships. more generally, financial transparency and clearer rules on access to the market will encourage the investments which are dearly needed to make ports greener. i therefore see no disagreement with the objectives of the green groups. as regards article 10 on the transfer of rights, let me be very clear: the transfer of staff should not be regulated at european level, but left to the member states. we must respect national labour laws and the arrangements which have been developed by social partners. i am confident we will be able to clarify these during the trilogue. i hope this answers the call of honourable member anderson. with that, i want to thank again the rapporteur and his shadows for their perseverance. the support from all major organisations show that the report on the table strikes the right balance, and that is what we have a chance to achieve tomorrow with positive support: a chance for a balanced agreement on ports, an agreement that can further strengthen the single transport area and the single market which has been a great achievement of the eu. i therefore encourage members to support it; i believe we are ready for trilogues that can bring the final solution.
in writing.– jobs could be lost at the port of tyne and teesport if psr is passed in this parliament today. the proposed psr will have a substantial impact on privately-owned ports. most continental ports are in public ownership but 75% of british ports are in private ownership, so the united kingdom will be the most affected. ports will be forced to contract out services and appoint at least two service providers, even if only one is required. this will undermine the competitiveness of local ports in a tough market. the proposed psr would also undermine commercial confidentiality. i am very concerned at the impact the regulations would have on teesport: it is another kick in the teeth for hard-working people. our local economy is under severe strain, and our transport links are a huge part of the fact that the north east is a net exporting region. we simply cannot afford to risk further loss of jobs at a time when our region already has the highest unemployment in the country. this proposal is a timely reminder that staying in the eu actually carries a substantial risk to local people’s jobs. the uk has europe’s second-largest port sector, with 344 000 jobs across the country.
madam president, if this report is on the fight against fraud in the eu then we are losing. we have got billions a year in irregularities, the time lapse between detection and reporting is now three years, four months and on the way up, and we have got traditional own resources fraud up by 191% in a single year. we hear a lot about vat fraud here, but actually part of the problem is that vat is one of the most bureaucratic systems of tax collection known to humanity. so we actually need to look at the problem rather than what always happens in this place, which is calls for more europe, calls for the eu to get more involved in criminal justice, more involved with a public prosecutor’s office at eu level. what an instructive example of the problem. every problem: the solution is supposedly more and yet more eu. i will tell you one thing: if people back home in the uk knew what was really going on here, how much power this place really wants, they would vote on 23 june to leave for good.
author.– madam president, the digital world is a borderless world and to solve questions it raises means that we need to work with others, both across europe and across the rest of the world too. big data helps businesses to manage logistics, to target sales, to reduce costs and thus to increase their competitiveness. this is key to driving our economic growth. but the regulatory environment must work for both businesses and consumers. good regulation can bring benefits. clear rules on how personal data is used can empower consumers. clear competition rules can give businesses, large and small, a level playing field and helps to bring confidence to investors and innovators. in the digital space new entrants emerge rapidly and new sectors like data brokers, raise new questions on transparency and accountability. so what is the commission doing to monitor these new entrants, and how do we make sure that any rules we pass are technologically neutral, future proof and do not just lock in old monopolies? big data also brings big benefits for health with next-generation medicines, for the environment by saving energy and reducing waste, and can help make our public services more efficient. but to achieve all of this we need smart procurement to unlock smart technology. so what is the commission doing to help our member states and their public services to share best practice and to enable savvy – tech-savvy – procurement? my committee first tabled these questions last summer. we are only debating them in march. this is not good enough. in the months in between parliament negotiators have agreed new rules on data protection, but outside our brussels bubble there is still a lot of concern about the details. if the data protection authorities are overly cautious when they implement the regulation they will put a straitjacket on the data processing. but to unlock the benefits of big data, data needs to be processed. so, commissioner, we need clear guidelines, they need to work for businesses and for consumers, for innovators and incumbents, for scientists and service providers. just agreeing the regulation is one step. now we need to work on the implementation and clear guidelines too.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, i have served in this parliament for 17 years. i was here during the lisbon council of march 2000 and i well remember the target we set ourselves: to create the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. yet, retrospective studies of the first decade of this century show that in fact the eu’s relative competitiveness slipped back during that period. but here we go again, undaunted. this time we seem to have created a sentence without a verb: ‘towards a thriving data-driven economy’. at least there is no target date, so we shall not quite know when we have failed. can we at least learn the lessons of past failure? we do not achieve competitiveness with fine words in carefully crafted regulations: we achieve it by creating incentives and removing obstacles. we achieve it by setting free the entrepreneurial spirit of business and industry. i call on the commission to keep this in mind and to pursue its laudable objective, not by detailed and prescriptive legislation, but by flinging wide the gates of opportunity.
madam president, today is my birthday. tomorrow, 8 march, is international women’s day, and also by chance, my mother’s birthday. i am so proud that in the midst of these auspicious days, celebrating different generations of the fight for women’s rights and gender equality, this parliament will be voting on a report that i have co-authored, a report the promotes the highest standards and sets a best practice example in respect of institutional and interinstitutional gender equality. from its initial foundation, women’s rights and gender equality have been at the heart of the european project. it is therefore very fitting that on international women’s day we take a good hard look at how we do things here, at who makes the decisions and whether or not we can see ourselves reflected in the power structures. gender mainstreaming requires commitment from both men and women to effect change. i commend this report.
madam president, i would like to raise a constituency issue and put forward my strong opposition to the proposed new thames crossing in thurrock. this is not about whether the eu is good or bad, but about what is best for thurrock. this new crossing will increase pollution above domestic and eu levels, will increase traffic and congestion, breaking thurrock’s road network, and will take away people’s homes. this government and our tory mp may want to dump on thurrock, but we will fight this all the way. the government can pick a fight with the people of thurrock, but i guarantee to you that the government will come off worse. thurrock is not just my constituency; it is my home, and together, united, we will fight this new crossing all the way.
madam president, i wish to draw attention to the dire humanitarian situation of refugees living in appalling conditions in makeshift camps inside the european union and on our borders. exposed to the elements, refugees in camps such as the calais and dunkirk ‘jungles’ have had their rickety shelters flooded and destroyed and have received limited support to survive the winter. their plight is in direct contravention of the basic universal norms of human rights and dignity that this european union was founded upon. in the meantime, women and children in these camps lack the basic facilities they need, including health care, sanitation and education. whilst we do not help them, unscrupulous traffickers step in. instead of a humanitarian response, we have seen police violence and aggression and forced evictions. it is tragic that those who have had to flee the horrors of daesh in syria and have had to risk their lives on perilous journeys in search of shelter must now encounter such callous treatment by our fellow europeans. we, as decision makers, must take the time to see these camps with our own eyes and to speak and to listen to some of the refugees ourselves, as i have done.
madam president, what are the pros and cons for uk farmers of our eu membership? according to agri europe, a uk-based agricultural consultancy, only 10% of the most efficient uk farms would survive in their current form once the common agricultural policy subsidies are removed. the uk government has no contingency plan for what would happen in the event of a ‘leave’ vote. cap subsidies currently provide 50-60% of uk farm inputs. this means a ‘leave’ vote would be a leap in the dark, a journey without a map. yet from the farming point of view, the eu is not only about the cap: uk farmers also enjoy the benefits of trade and the free flow of labour. uk agriculture is highly dependent on access to the eu single market to sell its produce. close to two thirds of uk agricultural exports go to the eu. with the uk leaving the eu, our producers would potentially face tariffs ranging from 11% to 48% to enter the single market. farmers should vote to remain in the european union.
madam president, following january’s debate on british citizens and other nationals imprisoned in india, including my constituent nick dunn, their bail application has not been granted while they wait for an appeal hearing. if – and it is a big if – there was any wrongdoing, then surely the company should be held liable, not individual contractors who found themselves simply in the wrong place at the wrong time. these men are highly qualified security guards who were doing a valuable public protection job, and i have seen those qualifications. i have here copies of the export licenses which show that the firearms were legally exported and that this was done within the timescales. i have nothing but respect for the indian government’s fight against illegal firearms, but in this case they simply have the wrong people. so i call on the indian government to urgently review this case and to secure the immediate release of my constituent.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, according to eurostat between 2010 and 2012 over 30 000 people were trafficked across europe, 80% of them women. the national crime agency reported that over 3 000 people were potential victims of trafficking in the uk, an increase of 21% from the previous year. this modern-day form of slavery is on the rise in the eu and i am afraid the eu is to blame. because we are forced to have open borders, the eu is enabling cross-border gangs to operate freely. the uk government report said that free movement within the eu is extensively exploited by organised criminals to bring human trafficking victims to the uk. even europol admitted that free movement policies make it harder to detect these crimes. so what have all the eu gender initiatives, funding and quangos actually achieved? the only people the european union has helped are the traffickers and those with histories of abuse and violence to come to the uk because we are banned from doing criminal background checks. if we left the eu we would still be part of the international labour organization that supports equal working conditions. we will still be part of the un agencies that promote women’s rights and we will be able to restore our links with the commonwealth and do more to champion these causes. there is no threat to women’s working conditions or maternity leave. we do not want to actually allow the scaremongers to get away with this. there is nothing to fear and everything to gain for women if we leave the european union.
madam president, i would like to wish everyone a happy international women’s day. enshrined in the founding treaty of the eu lies the commitment to reach equality between women and men. since this founding treaty, the eu has delivered a huge amount to bring us closer to that goal. it has brought us legislation on equal treatment, equal pay, parental leave, carer’s leave and protection for pregnant workers, to mention a few of the direct benefits. i know the difference that these pieces of legislation have made; i used them in the 20 years i was a trade union official. women have benefitted, and continue to benefit, from eu membership, in pay packets, pension provision and protection at work. but no one can suggest that we have achieved that original aim of equality. we cannot, and must not, put our feet up. recently, we have seen that women have suffered disproportionately as a consequence of austerity policies across the eu and through employment deregulation, which has led to greater temporary and insecure employment. looking at the commission’s europe 2020 strategy, there is agreement that more needs to be done – boosting female employment, reducing the pay gap, getting women into positions of power, reducing the number of people in poverty – but targets in these areas without actions are meaningless. a review of the actions of the commission is not encouraging: refitting maternity leave directive, no progress on women directors and now no strategy on equality between women and men. so i ask the commission to follow the talk on this day with action on all other days.
blue-card question.– would you agree with me that all artificial constructs like international women’s day are little more than gimmicks and what really matters is freedom of equality, of opportunity, for people? also, that what matters is for western women to still be allowed to enjoy the values of western freedom in society, and not for those to be washed away in the huge flood of new people coming into our continent, into europe, who wish to have different values – so the freedom of opportunity for western women to live as they wish and not to have those values eroded by newcomers?
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to greet everyone by wishing them a happy international women’s day. this report on women refugees and asylum seekers is about bringing a much—needed gender perspective to the way we in the european union deal with those seeking safety within our borders. at present, there are worrying disparities in the way different member states handle asylum claims, particularly where those claims are related to gender. as a result, women seeking asylum in the eu are not guaranteed consistent gender—sensitive treatment. women refugees and women seeking asylum are too often confronted with policies which fail to meet acceptable standards and where sensitive policies regarding gender are not implemented in practice. this report recommends a new set of gender guidelines to address these shortcomings. violence is, tragically, an everyday reality for women and girls fleeing conflict. i have heard horrifying reports of women being exploited and abused. research shows that women and girl refugees face this kind of violence, assault, exploitation and sexual harassment at every stage of their journey, including on european soil. women – and indeed children – who are entitled to claim asylum are being coerced into transactional sex and forced into prostitution to pay for travel documents or a place in a boat or on a lorry. traffickers and smugglers are having a field day with these desperate people. women need safer alternatives, as this report sets out. pressure on the asylum reception systems should never excuse failure to protect women from violence. nor should women seeking asylum and women refugees experience any double standards. they should have the same rights as other victims of gender-based violence. i very much welcome the news in the past few days that the commission has proposed accession of the eu to the istanbul convention. the istanbul convention is the most comprehensive treaty on violence against women in the world today and requires states to interpret the refugee convention in a gender—sensitive manner. it also requires states to implement reception and asylum procedures which are sensitive to the needs of women and girls. the proposal will now be discussed in the council and in this parliament, whose consent is needed for the conclusion of the convention by the eu. only 12 member states have already ratified the convention and another 13 have yet to do so. we also need to look at the longer term issues. we often talk of refugees as presenting a burden, or bringing only costs to the countries which host them. however, with adequate investment, this need not be the case in the longer term. as i know we are all aware, refugees have much to offer our societies in the longer term, but we need to think carefully and develop integration strategies that are relevant to everyone. women have specific integration and inclusion needs, such as childcare and language training. many will not have been active in the labour market, so we need to look at properly matching skills and training provision with labour market shortages. over 30 years ago, this parliament acknowledged the need for a gender—sensitive interpretation of the refugee convention in a resolution in 1984. this was even before the unhcr adopted gender guidelines. it would therefore be a huge step backwards if we were to fail to adopt this resolution today. women and children now make up the majority of those seeking protection in the eu. the un estimates it is now 55%. it is vital that we have the necessary policies and procedures in place to meet their needs. we need an approach which takes account of gender at every stage of the journey undertaken by these women refugees and provide the kind of protection that they need – and should expect – from the european union.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms honeyball, and the shadow rapporteurs and members who have contributed to this very important report for their excellent work. this report highlights a very important aspect of the migration crisis, ensuring the rights and needs of women and girls who are fleeing conflicts and wars. according to the united nations high commissioner for refugees, 20% of mediterranean sea arrivals since 1 january 2016 were women and 33% were children. the eu has international obligations to provide protection and humanitarian support to those who need it. i fully support parliament’s general recommendation that safe and legal routes to the eu must be made available for those fleeing conflict and persecution. no legislation and policies relating to irregular migration should ever prevent access to protection inside the eu. we need to provide credible alternatives to irregular migration and enhance our legal channels. the commission will soon come up with proposals in this respect. we have to proactively ensure that the newly arrived will receive protection and are enabled to participate and fully integrate in our societies. the success of integration depends on its timelines. women face much stronger barriers than other migrants, suffering from multiple disadvantages. we need to act on this. the provision of services has been tailored to the needs of women, considering in particular childcare responsibilities. the commission foresees presenting further steps on improving integration in april 2016. of course, the gender dimension will play an important role in this respect. let me underline how important the commitment and support of member states is; they already have important instruments at their disposal: the european social fund as well as the asylum migration integration fund. both should be used to better respond to women’s needs. the commission is working to address the challenge of protecting women from violence and the risk of exploitation and enslavement. as regards the fight against migrant smuggling, the commission already presented an action plan last year. in this context, we will this year propose strengthening the existing legal framework. the commission has already set out various elements on the issue of trafficking in the european agendas on migration and security and the eu action plan on human rights and democracy for the years 2015 to 2019. i would also like to draw attention to a legal obligation on member states to take measures to reduce demand, the importance of criminalisation, the use of services of victims and paying attention to all forms of exploitation. the commission prioritises the fight against trafficking in human beings as a human rights issue. we raise this in dialogues with third countries. members call in particular on the eu to access the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. i am happy to inform you that last week on 4 march 2016 the commission adopted the proposal for the eu’s accession to this convention, which is a comprehensive instrument to tackle the widespread phenomenon of violence against women. in conclusion, let me be clear. europe will continue to provide protection for those who need it, including for women and girls seeking refuge in the eu. actions of all the relevant stakeholders at european and national level should be mutually reinforcing and concerted efforts should translate into more protection and effective integration policies for women refugees. i thank you again for this report.
blue-card question.– we were at the same breakfast this morning celebrating international women’s day, but i did not hear from you when i raised the question that actually the islamic values of these women coming in – i am not talking about fundamental islam, i am talking about islam across the middle east – is incompatible with our western values and your feminism – and my feminism, which i think really differs. should we not be protecting our own women and children against the rapes and assaults that we have seen across european cities before we start trying to integrate more? because they do not integrate. they have not integrated for 40 or 50 years.
blue-card question.– actually, one of the reasons i am not in the same group is because of its approach to socialism and the greens en bloc. it was one of the reasons i left the group. you are not making a distinction between economic migrants and those that are real refugees – again, you seem to have a big difference within your grouping. do you make a distinction between economic migrants and refugees?
madam president, if the uk had sensible immigration controls, such as the australian points system, we could do more to help genuine refugees and offer protection to those suffering persecution. but because we have 300 000 net people coming to britain every year, the government tries to look tough to respond to legitimate public concern. so they make it more difficult for the people we actually need from the commonwealth and those we should offer protection to, in favour of unlimited numbers of unskilled workers from europe with no criminal background checks. it is cynical. it is disgraceful. over one million people came to europe in 2015. with chancellor merkel saying anyone can come through the qualification directive, the eu is encouraging vulnerable women and children to make the deadly journey through the mediterranean. this definitely plays into the hands of traffickers and causes the loss of life. europol has said that 10 000 migrant children are missing, with many caught up in sexual exploitation. the eu has opened the door to millions of people from countries and cultures that treat women as second class citizens and lgbti people even worse. is it any wonder that we see the shocking scenes in cologne and sweden with women being sexually assaulted and humiliated? for the safety of our own women, and for the welfare of those seeking refuge, we must scrap these eu policies, and leave the european union.
madam president, no one chooses to be a refugee and no one aspires to be an asylum-seeker. no woman sets out on a journey that could lead to what is – for me – the most poignant and appalling outcome i have seen, that is, women having to separate from their children due to illness or violence. the immense suffering of women refugees is abundantly clear. we have a duty to protect them from violence and rape and to provide health care and sustenance. however, this report goes too far in some areas, particularly finance and legal aid. my delegation, the british conservatives, will be supporting the epp resolution as this recognises the competences of this committee and of parliament. but i want to make it clear that we appreciate mrs honeyball’s work. we understand the sentiments, we understand the political thrust and support behind her report, and we will not vote against it.
rapporteur.– madam president, in our european union we are relatively well off and relatively prosperous. those refugees who feel that they have to leave their countries, their homes and often their loved ones to escape war and suffering are not in the privileged position that we are, and no one leaves home unless they really have to. we know, and we have heard during this debate, that women refugees have very special requirements which many of the speakers have pointed out. i would urge you all, therefore, to vote against the epp resolution, which significantly waters down what my resolution says about women refugees and their special needs. the epp resolution waters down family reunification, which is an essential human right, aid for pregnant women, support for those women who have suffered violence, and childcare facilities, amongst other things. as has been said, women’s rights are universal rights. the european union has a long history of supporting women, and we must continue that. so please, therefore, support our report in the vote today.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, as the uk minister responsible for resettlement during the bosnian crisis, i saw first-hand just what war does to a country, to its people and to their hopes for the future, and i am proud to be from a europe that does not turn its back on the rest of the world. but the sad truth is that when some european leaders opened their doors last year to everyone seeking a better life, it merely pushed the most desperate, the most vulnerable and the most in need to the back of an already very long queue. to truly help those people most in need, i have long believed the solution is direct resettlement from conflict regions. it reduces pull factors, it presents the tragic loss of life at sea, it reduces the demand for human trafficking, and it helps stabilise our external borders. if the eu is to continue offering a europe of opportunity, sanctuary and community cohesion, then the eu must realise that resettlement and controlled immigration flows must be the solution. high commissioner, as rapporteur for the permanent relocation mechanism, i would like to try to link that proposal with an ambitious unhcr-led resettlement programme with the eu. relocation in its current form is simply not working. let us be truthful with each other: some member states feel as though the system was forced on them, and migrants only want to go to certain member states. it is not a recipe for a long-term successful system. member states will not support relocation in a meaningful way until the external borders are secure, the flow of migrants has stabilised and we start to have a sense of the numbers we ultimately need to relocate. keeping europe’s borders open with no clear plan or end in sight will only exacerbate the situation. we talk about safe legal routes to europe. resettlement achieves that. it helps ensure safe passage, especially for women and children to whom you have referred eloquently today, taking them out of the hands of evil human traffickers. too many female refugees are facing exploitation. too many unaccompanied minors are tragically unaccounted for today. europe could offer more syrians, more women and more children refuge if we could get control of this crisis. to put in place a fair and controlled immigration system does not mean you lack compassion, but simply ensures that you can give genuine refugees the safety, the stability and the opportunities they truly deserve.
thank you, mr president. mr president, i would just like to ask you whether, as the president of this august body, you are not meant to be neutral? should you be siding in a partisan way with the people on this side of the house, sir? (shouting and applauding) with all due respect, mr. president, i think you should remain neutral in these regards. in the house of commons your behaviour would be unconscionable. the speaker of the house of commons cannot take sides. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i supported this report on animal health as it represents a progressive step forward in european law and policy-making. on a personal and political level, i am strongly in favour of reforms that promote further protection of animals. it is an issue that resonates strongly with my constituents in the west midlands, who want greater action at european level; in particular, they want to see humane treatment of stray animals, and there should be a clear strategy for how we address this. it is also important that we highlight the preventative action plan in this report, especially on transmissible animal diseases, which is a consideration in maintaining animal health across the board. in this respect, i welcome that the commission is fully committed to defending animal health in the eu and to improving it with the help of member states. all in all, it is a positive report that moves in the right direction.
madam president, one of the more lamentable tendencies in our present age is to use legislation as a kind of virtue signalling, a way to show what a nice person you are rather than to look at the effects and consequences of the law. here is a hard thing about this subject that ought to be pointed out. there is actually a contradiction between animal welfare and the prevalence of the diseases mentioned in these reports. when we had ugly, industrial, mass factory farming of the kind that was introduced fifty or forty years ago there were remarkably sterile sealed environments where animal diseases did not spread. as soon as we decided that animal welfare was important and we wanted animals outside, having organic lives and so on, they became more prone to having disease spread from one farm to another. tension of exactly this kind, namely where you draw the line between health and welfare, is a case that ought to be decided by our elected national authorities. it is precisely these sensitive issues that we should leave to voters country by country.
in writing. – we supported the rejection because the overall effect is to extend and bureaucratise eu control with all its negative impacts, especially in relation to family pets.
in writing. – we supported the rejection because the overall effect is to extend and bureaucratise eu control with all its negative impacts, especially in relation to family pets.
in writing. – there was only one vote here, which was a vote to reject the animal health proposal. i voted against that amendment, thereby endorsing what had been agreed. this proposal related to an effort to create a single, comprehensive animal health law to replace the current framework of around 50 directives, regulations and around 400 pieces of secondary legislation. the subject matter is primarily concerned with prevention and control of animal diseases. the focus is on long-term preventive measures and laying down a more efficient and streamlined system to combat transmissible animal diseases, like foot and mouth, avian influenza and other newly emerging diseases. furthermore a list of diseases subject to regulation is included in an annex for the protection of human and animal health. this list may be easily amended to deal with possible outbreaks.
in writing. ‒ i would like to confirm that i voted in favour of this proposal to reject the council position. the council wants use limit the use of antimicrobial drugs in animals. this would be a grave mistake and consequently animal welfare and health would suffer. in the uk there are strict rules governing the use of these, farmers and vets do not use antimicrobial drugs without good reason. antimicrobial medicinal products are essential in the treatment of important infectious diseases in animals.
in writing. ‒ we supported the rejection because the overall effect is to extend and bureaucratise eu control with all its negative impacts, especially in relation to family pets.
in writing. ‒ we supported the rejection because the overall effect is to extend and bureaucratise eu control with all its negative impacts, especially in relation to family pets.
in writing. – we supported the rejection because the overall effect is to extend and bureaucratise eu control with all its negative impacts, especially in relation to family pets.
in writing. ‒ whilst i understand that the new regulation is a major step towards simplifying animal health legislation and the resulting framework fulfils much of the uk government’s negotiating aims, with the commission taking a risk-based approach with a strong focus on outcomes, regulatory simplicity and flexibility in the management of disease, i cannot however, support this regulation as the final text contains an unsatisfactory separation of tertiary powers between delegated and implementing acts, particularly for ‘listed diseases’.
in writing. ‒ this regulation replaces over 40 outdated and inconsistent pieces of eu legislation. whilst that could be useful, i voted against it on the grounds that the policy implications are hard to predict at this stage, particularly with regard to the secondary legislation that could result. i also do not accept that the commission should be given the sole legal right to draw up a list of animal diseases which pose a risk to animal or public health, whereas the uk’s national experts are excluded from that process.
in writing. ‒ we supported the rejection because the overall effect is to extend and bureaucratise eu control with all its negative impacts, especially in relation to family pets
in writing. ‒ we supported the rejection because the overall effect is to extend and bureaucratise eu control with all its negative impacts, especially in relation to family pets.
in writing. ‒ this legislation has animal welfare at its heart and improves upon and simplifies the current legal situation. many areas of animal health and welfare are best dealt with at an eu-wide level, and the cooperation that the eu fosters across the continent is of great value in the prevention of animal diseases. i therefore gave my support to this proposal.
in writing. – we supported the rejection because the overall effect is to extend and bureaucratise eu control with all its negative impacts, especially in relation to family pets.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the proposed law, as it contains a range of measures to help eu countries tackle transmissible animal diseases, boost animal welfare levels and improve the treatment of stray animals.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which attempts to deal with the rising threat from antimicrobial resistance and emphasises the preventive role of the regulation on transmissible animal diseases (‘animal health law’) and the consequent expected reduction of the use of antibiotics in animals, hence contributing to the reduction of the risk of antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it represents a major achievement of european law and policy—making with regards to animals. the new animal health law represents a positive contribution of the eu to the health and welfare of animals, the key concern of labour supporters. importantly, the new law will introduce robust measures to tackle transmissible animal diseases which endanger animal welfare and pose health risks to humans. the new law also contains a set of provisions that will be useful for dealing with stray animals in a humane manner. in sum, the new animal health law is a great example of the eu actually delivering on a matter of direct importance to the eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ we supported the rejection because the overall effect is to extend and bureaucratise eu control with all its negative impacts, especially in relation to family pets.
in writing. ‒ we supported the rejection because the overall effect is to extend and bureaucratise eu control with all its negative impacts, especially in relation to family pets.
in writing. ‒ we supported the rejection because the overall effect is to extend and bureaucratise eu control with all its negative impacts, especially in relation to family pets.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because, in the view i share with my socialist colleagues, it represents a great achievement of policy-making and of eu law in regards to animals. the new animal health law represents a positive contribution of the eu to the welfare and health of animals. this is something about which many of my constituents in the west midlands have contacted me. for me, it was important that this new law should introduce robust measures to tackle diseases which are transmissible between animals of the same species and across species, and diseases which endanger and pose serious health risks to humans. the new law also contains a set of provisions that will be useful for dealing with stray animals in a humane manner. overall, this new animal health law represents a great example of how the eu can actually deliver on something about which many citizens across europe are worried.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which represents a positive contribution by the eu to the health and welfare of animals. the new law will introduce robust measures to tackle transmissible animal diseases which endanger animal welfare and pose health risks to humans. the new law also contains a set of provisions that will be useful for dealing with stray animals in a humane manner. along with my eplp colleagues, i am proud to support this excellent new safeguard to animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ this regulation replaces over 40 outdated and sometimes inconsistent pieces of eu legislation with one single document, but the more detailed rules are subject to secondary legislation, which makes a full assessment of the policy implications hard to predict at this stage. furthermore, i cannot accept the legal empowerment given to the commission to draw up a list of animal diseases which pose a risk to animal or public health. i believe that this requires input from national experts, which the empowerment precludes.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it represents a significant step forward in european law and policy-making with regard to animals. this new animal health law puts the welfare of animals at the forefront of policy-making by introducing robust measures to tackle transmissible animal diseases which endanger animal welfare and pose health risks to humans. the report also contains a set of provisions that lay out methods for dealing with stray animals in a humane manner. there has been widespread demand from citizens for higher standards and codification in the area of animal treatment. i am therefore happy to see this report being brought forward to address these concerns. this shows the eu responding properly to the concerns of its citizens. in sum, the new animal health law is a great example of the eu delivering on a matter of direct importance to the eu citizens through the improvement and codification of animal welfare standards.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it represents a major achievement of european law and policy—making with regards to animals. the new animal health law represents a positive contribution of the eu to the health and welfare of animals, a key concern of labour supporters. importantly, the new law will introduce robust measures to tackle transmissible animal diseases which endanger animal welfare and pose health risks to humans. the new law also contains a set of provisions that will be useful for dealing with stray animals in a humane manner. in sum, the new animal health law is a great example of the eu actually delivering on a matter of direct importance to eu citizens.
madam president, i supported this report and congratulate to the rapporteur on a good report. i welcome the fact that parliament will be deciding on the budget for this scheme in 2017 and 2018 and that we have transferred existing monies to increase the annual budget by eur 20 million for school milk, compared to the commission’s proposal. this is a subject close to my heart because, back in 1999, my first success in an amendment in parliament related to the school milk initiative. what i particularly welcome is that this scheme provides nutritious alternatives to the unhealthy snacks and sugary drinks consumed by children today. it is a win-win situation for our farmers and for our children. it is also a good deal for the uk taxpayer. it is another positive aspect of the uk’s membership of the eu.
madam president, in the 17 years that i have been here – not for much longer, i hope, depending on our referendum, but that is another question – i have never once been lobbied on the issue of school milk by a nutritionist or an educationalist. i have been lobbied a great deal by farmers. in fact, there is an argument that we have far too much dairy in the western diet. but, leaving that argument aside, surely this is the kind of thing we can leave to schools to work out for themselves – or, if we absolutely need coordination, then to local – not even to national – governments. how on earth have we got to the point where this kind of issue is being determined on behalf of 600 million citizens? of course, the answer is precisely because we are so prone to lobbies in this chamber, and precisely because there is a remoteness of distance between government and governed in brussels which you do not get at national levels, which is what makes it so attractive to vested interests.
madam chairman, i was hesitant to support this material. i end up supporting him. i consider the issue of healthy eating among young people to be a big problem. it is clear that obesity and unhealthy lifestyle are major problems for the younger generation in most parts of europe. that's why i supported this bill to promote healthy eating in schools. i believe that it is impossible to force this on children, but we should make this offer to them. i doubt that this needs to be addressed by subsidies. only practice will show how effective the subsidies are, how much they really help young people or whether they are just another form of subsidies for farmers. it would therefore be good to evaluate after a certain period of time how effective the programme will be and whether it will really lead to young people taking more advantage of the healthy food offerings in schools.
in writing. – we do want school-children to be well—nourished, but we opposed this because, even if you think taxpayers should contribute, these things should not be done centrally by brussels.
in writing. – we do want school-children to be well—nourished, but we opposed this because, even if you think taxpayers should contribute, these things should not be done centrally by brussels.
in writing. – this regulation was aimed at revising the school milk scheme (in place since 1977) and the school fruit scheme (in place since 2007). the revisions were primarily concerned with visibility of the scheme and amending those parts related to educational aspects. i specifically took issue with the fact that the ‘refocus’ of the already existing scheme would now require schools to publicise, at the school premises, their involvement in the scheme and the fact that it is subsidised by the union by using official logos and graphic. the revision further allows the commission to adopt delegated and implementing acts dictating exactly how this is to be done (methods of publicising, exact size of posters, font, website tools, etc.). the original aim of the scheme was to promote local produce and healthy eating. this new focus on publicity is an unsuitable use of funds for an already functioning scheme. therefore i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i would like to confirm that i abstained on this legislative resolution. i agree with the sentiment of the report that healthy eating should be promoted in schools. the uk already has healthy eating promoted in schools as part of the curriculum because it is important to educate children to make good food choices. the report demands that any member states taking part in the programme must promote the european union using ‘suitable communication tools to be laid down by the commission.’ i take issue with the fine print of the report, which will allow the european commission to ‘be empowered to adopt delegated acts to supplement the list of food products and flavours allowed’. the ec would be automatically allowed to decide what british children can and cannot eat without any consultation. this is a dangerous precedent to set.
in writing. ‒ we do want school-children to be well nourished, but we opposed this because, even if you think taxpayers should contribute, these things should not be done centrally by brussels.
in writing. ‒ we do want school-children to be well nourished, but we opposed this because, even if you think taxpayers should contribute, these things should not be done centrally by brussels.
in writing. – we do want school-children to be well—nourished, but we opposed this because, even if you think taxpayers should contribute, these things should not be done centrally by brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this scheme, ultimately because it is my belief that promoting healthy eating is something which should be done at the national level, not by the eu. as a passionate advocate of healthy eating and living for young people, schemes to promote these ends are much more financially effective if delivered by national, regional and local governments. whilst the uk does not currently participate in the eu school fruit scheme, it does promote healthy eating in school-age children through its own national initiatives which provide more fruit than the eu schemes offer. the scheme itself also has serious issues, with an average yearly underspend of €10 million. it is my view that it would therefore be financially imprudent to support a budget increase of €20 million when the existing budget is not adequately spent. i note that the eu’s court of auditors has repeatedly criticised this scheme for its inefficiency and poor value, and the new scheme is unlikely to deliver better.
in writing. ‒ we do want school-children to be well nourished, but we opposed this because, even if you think taxpayers should contribute, these things should not be done centrally by brussels.
in writing. – we do want school-children to be well nourished, but we opposed this because, even if you think taxpayers should contribute, these things should not be done centrally by brussels.
in writing. ‒ a healthy start to life is essential and schools play a valuable role in encouraging our youngsters to eat healthily. the eu has done valuable work in this area over the years and i was therefore happy to support this report.
in writing. – we do want school-children to be well—nourished, but we opposed this because, even if you think taxpayers should contribute, these things should not be done centrally by brussels.
in writing. ‒ only 36% of europeans eat their five portions of fruit and vegetables a day, while at the same time one child in three is overweight or obese in europe. i voted in favour of the report, as its goal is to promote consumption of healthy, fresh foods by schoolchildren, helping them establish healthy eating habits.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this proposal. in the current context of declining consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and milk products, especially among children, and an increasing incidence of child obesity as a result of consumption habits geared to highly processed foods which, additionally, are often high in added sugars, salt, fat or additives, the union aid to finance the supply to children in educational establishments of selected agricultural products should do more to promote healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in order to highlight the positive contribution of the eu and the cap to the development of healthy eating habits among children and the promotion of sustainable local agricultural products. the current schemes benefit nearly 30 million children per year across the eu and their funding has been increased to eur 150 million a year (2014-2020). in 2012-13, the uk received gbp 3.3 million worth of eu aid for the milk scheme, supplemented by gbp 0.9 million of national subsidy. such a breakdown of funding illustrates a significant overall benefit of the scheme for the uk taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ we do want school-children to be well nourished, but we opposed this because, even if you think taxpayers should contribute, these things should not be done centrally by brussels.
in writing. ‒ we do want school-children to be well nourished, but we opposed this because, even if you think taxpayers should contribute, these things should not be done centrally by brussels.
in writing. ‒ we do want school-children to be well nourished, but we opposed this because, even if you think taxpayers should contribute, these things should not be done centrally by brussels.
in writing. ‒ some great work from my colleague, marc tarabella, on this report: it really highlights the positive contribution that the common agricultural policy can have in the development of healthy eating for children, and it promotes sustainable, local agricultural products. impressively, the current scheme benefits nearly 30 million children across the eu per year, and the funding for this has increased to €150 million per year from 2014 to 2020.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which benefits both british children and local british agricultural producers. the current schemes benefit nearly 30 million children per year across the eu and their funding has been increased to eur 150 million a year (2014-2020). in 2012-13, the uk received gbp 3.3 million worth of eu aid for the milk scheme, supplemented by gbp 0.9 million of national subsidy. this illustrates a significant overall benefit of the scheme for the uk taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ i fully accept the benefits of providing fresh fruit, vegetables and milk for school-age children, and i recognise the importance of educating children about the value of healthy eating. sourcing products locally is also a practice i welcome, and one that i believe we need to continue to promote, in order to support our farmers in sectors like dairy during difficult times. however, from a subsidiarity perspective, i am concerned about the delivery of this project at an eu level. i believe that such schemes would be more effectively, and more efficiently, delivered within the member states, in particular, those components on educating children about eating habits. i therefore opted to abstain at the vote on this scheme today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative report. the current schemes benefit nearly 30 million children per year across the eu, and their funding has been increased to eur 150 million a year (2014-2020). in 2012-13, the uk received gbp 3.3 million worth of eu aid for the milk scheme, supplemented by gbp 0.9 million of national subsidy. such a breakdown of funding illustrates a significant overall benefit of the scheme for the uk taxpayer. uk dairy farmers enjoy the benefits of the eu milk scheme, which generates additional, stable demand for milk and dairy products. this could be particularly important now, with the continued downturn in the dairy sector. nutrition for children is an investment in our long-term future, helping to prevent later chronic health issues.
in writing. ‒ i supported this important report, linking child nutrition with health and wellbeing. it highlights the positive contribution of the eu and the cap to development of healthy eating habits among children and promotion of sustainable local agricultural products. this is particularly important in the run-up to the eu membership referendum. the current schemes benefit nearly 30 million children per year across the eu and their funding has been increased to eur 150 million a year (2014-2020). i would like to emphasise the link between proper nutrition and readiness to learn, and educational achievement. i come from a family of teachers and i myself have worked in early-years education, with children from the most deprived urban and rural communities in the uk. i know first-hand the listlessness and attention-deficit that accompanies child hunger. the shameful removal of free school milk from british primary schools in 1971 by the conservatives earned margaret thatcher the eternal nickname of ‘thatcher the snatcher’. she proved that member state governments do not always have the best interests of the child at heart. so thank goodness for progressive and compassionate politicians here working for the greater good of future generations in europe.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of this report to direct existing funds towards providing milk and other healthy products for schools. this eu money is already available and using it to help nourish children, some of whom are in desperate need of good nutrition, is exactly what we should be using eu funding for.
madam president, i supported the calls made by scottish ports and trade unionists, as did the rest of the european parliamentary labour party, to reject this proposal. we believe a one—size—fits—all proposal does not recognise the diversity and complexity of ports across the european union, and particularly in the uk and scotland. although the proposed piece of law will now enter a negotiation process, it is important that meps in the negotiating team and those representing the council, where the uk government has a say, recognise the uk’s legitimate concerns on this issue. there is some way to go before this house will vote on a final proposal so let us make sure that in this time the necessary exemptions for uk ports are included in the negotiation and hopefully a good result will come forward.
madam president, whilst my west midlands constituency is the only landlocked one in the uk, it is, however, a hotbed of manufacturing which relies on ports to export our wares. this is the third time the commission has attempted to modernise port services and, i am afraid, it has still not got it right. my reservations about the latest proposals are that they fail to recognise the diversity of the port sector in the eu and they have equally failed to mitigate the environmental impact of ports. however, my concerns are focused primarily on employment rights and in particular the right to strike and the legal challenges which trade unions might face. i believe that this draft instrument is a blunt instrument, with the potential for the social elements being watered down still further during the trilogue process. for this reason, like my other labour colleagues, i voted against this report.
madam president, this directive precisely illustrates why britain would be better off outside the european union. here is a directive that simply does not take account of the specificities and particularisms of our country. european ports for the most part are much larger and much further apart than british ones. ours tend to be small and thickly dotted along the coast. they compete with each other and they are not state owned or state subsidised. on the country, they generate a large surplus for the exchequer. so, although there may be a case for a measure of internal competition in giant ports like antwerp and rotterdam – even if there is, i am not sure it has got anything to do with brussels, but let us allow that there might be – it plainly does not affect a situation like ours, where you already have lots of competition among private ports. why were private ports not exempted? because the whole issue has been held hostage in this dispute about state funding between the commission and the parliament. thus we see an important industry like ours being ruined in somebody else’s argument.
madam president, i voted against the port service package today, as there are few tangible benefits for north-east ports, their workers or the environment. the proposed legislation has missed the opportunity to include strong employment and environmental provisions, and labour meps will continue to work with the uk’s ports industry and trade unions to oppose this unnecessary legislation. however, we should remember that under all current models in which the uk has access to the single market these are exactly the type of regulations that we would have to adhere to, and we would have no voice or vote to challenge them if we left the eu. if we are to have a say in the eu and on its regulations both as a country and as a region, it is absolutely vital that we remain inside the eu, not just for jobs, investment and rights, but also for the future of our ports.
madam president, if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it. that is a wise old saying in english, which sadly seems to have been lost in translation with the european commission. british ports are world—class in service, performance and efficiency, and the way to compete globally is to reward excellence, not to level down the playing field. unfortunately, the port services regulation does exactly that. it is another example of one-size-fits-all legislation that threatens to blunt the commercial edge of britain’s ports. this tidal wave of red tape and bureaucracy means that hull, immingham and grimsby in my constituency risk damaging their hard—earned competitiveness, compromising future investment and growth. i voted against this legislation and will continue to support the unions and employers who are working together to create a new sense of optimism in my region.
in writing. – ukip have voted against this proposal as the regulation does not take into account the commercial nature of uk ports. in order to ensure that commercial ports are exempt from this regulation, ukip put forward an amendment to article 1.3. it is important to ensure that ports are entitled to operate fully as commercial businesses; this regulation does not allow it. furthermore, the ambiguity of the text creates uncertainty and puts essential future investment, growth and jobs at risk.
in writing. – ukip have voted against this proposal as the regulation does not take into account the commercial nature of uk ports. in order to ensure that commercial ports are exempt from this regulation, ukip put forward an amendment to article 1.3. it is important to ensure that ports are entitled to operate fully as commercial businesses; this regulation does not allow it. furthermore, the ambiguity of the text creates uncertainty and puts essential future investment, growth and jobs at risk.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. i am gravely concerned that jobs could be lost at the port of tyne and teesport if this controversial proposal passes through the european parliament. this proposal will have a substantial impact on privately-owned ports. most continental ports are in public ownership but most british ports are in private ownership. the united kingdom will be the most affected. ports will be forced to contract out services and appoint at least two service providers, even if only one is required. this will undermine the competitiveness of local ports in what is already a tough market. the proposed psr would also undermine commercial confidentiality.
in writing. ‒ ukip have voted against this proposal as the regulation does not take into account the commercial nature of uk ports. in order to ensure that commercial ports are exempt from this regulation, ukip put forward an amendment to article 1.3. it is important to ensure that ports are entitled to operate fully as commercial businesses; this regulation does not allow it. furthermore, the ambiguity of the text creates uncertainty and puts essential future investment, growth and jobs at risk.
in writing. ‒ ukip have voted against this proposal as the regulation does not take into account the commercial nature of uk ports. in order to ensure that commercial ports are exempt from this regulation, ukip put forward an amendment to article 1.3. it is important to ensure that ports are entitled to operate fully as commercial businesses; this regulation does not allow it. furthermore, the ambiguity of the text creates uncertainty and puts essential future investment, growth and jobs at risk.
in writing. – ukip have voted against this proposal as the regulation does not take into account the commercial nature of uk ports. in order to ensure that commercial ports are exempt from this regulation, ukip put forward an amendment to article 1.3. it is important to ensure that ports are entitled to operate fully as commercial businesses; this regulation does not allow it. furthermore, the ambiguity of the text creates uncertainty and puts essential future investment, growth and jobs at risk.
in writing. ‒ i do not support this third attempt at an overarching european regulation of ports. there was a reason the last two attempts failed, a one-size-fits-all approach to the hugely diverse range of ports in europe does not work. in the uk, our ports operate in a different way to many ports in continental europe. they are thriving and successful private enterprises competing directly with each other in a competitive market place. competition between ports, rather than a prescriptive regulation of ports’ internal operations, is the best driver of efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject the commission’s proposal on the basis that competition between ports is the greatest driver of efficiency, not prescriptive regulations determining the internal operations of ports. this unnecessary increase in bureaucracy will increase costs for the uk’s system of privatised and market-driven ports. uk port owners have made clear that the commission’s proposal would impact them negatively, particularly smaller ports.
in writing. ‒ ukip have voted against this proposal as the regulation does not take into account the commercial nature of uk ports. in order to ensure that commercial ports are exempt from this regulation, ukip put forward an amendment to article 1.3. it is important to ensure that ports are entitled to operate fully as commercial businesses; this regulation does not allow it. furthermore, the ambiguity of the text creates uncertainty and puts essential future investment, growth and jobs at risk.
in writing. ‒ in the uk, the port industry is thriving. not only has this led the uk port industry to become the second largest in europe, but it has also enabled it to operate independently, free of taxpayer subsidies. in fact, 75% of uk ports are privately owned, an industry model that is in stark contrast to the rest of europe where 80% of ports are run by state or local authorities. due to such significant differences, especially differences in competitiveness, for the uk, this regulation poses a significant number of risks. regulating market access to port services, port charges and financial transparency may have negative implications for uk investment and job creation. the imposition of a regulator on the uk ports industry would also lead to uncertainty and in turn, undermine commercial and investor confidence. the commission’s proposal is therefore overly bureaucratic and ill-fit for our uk system of privatised and market-driven ports. indeed, i, alongside my conservative colleagues, believe that competition between ports, rather than prescriptive regulation on ports’ internal operations, is the key driving force for efficiency. it was for these reasons that i voted to reject the commission’s proposal.
in writing. ‒ ukip have voted against this proposal as the regulation does not take into account the commercial nature of uk ports. in order to ensure that commercial ports are exempt from this regulation, ukip put forward an amendment to article 1.3. it is important to ensure that ports are entitled to operate fully as commercial businesses; this regulation does not allow it. furthermore, the ambiguity of the text creates uncertainty and puts essential future investment, growth and jobs at risk.
in writing. ‒ eu legislation is supposed to be proportionate and effective. i do not consider that this text meets either of those criteria. the final result has been attacked both by port authorities and those who work in ports, and will do little to improve europe’s port services. i therefore voted against.
in writing. – ukip have voted against this proposal as the regulation does not take into account the commercial nature of uk ports. in order to ensure that commercial ports are exempt from this regulation, ukip put forward an amendment to article 1.3. it is important to ensure that ports are entitled to operate fully as commercial businesses; this regulation does not allow it. furthermore, the ambiguity of the text creates uncertainty and puts essential future investment, growth and jobs at risk.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject the commission’s proposal for an eu port services regulation as the proposed legislation includes few tangible benefits for the port sector, its workers or the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this unnecessary piece of legislation.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s ‘one-size-fits-all’ proposal for a new port services regulation failed to recognise the complexity and diversity of the eu’s port sector. although parliament has managed to secure some limited improvements to the commission’s proposal, this draft legislation remains a blunt instrument with very little added value for port operators, users or workers. for this reason, labour meps voted against parliament’s port services report and will continue to work with uk ports and unions to oppose this regulation.
in writing. ‒ ukip have voted against this proposal as the regulation does not take into account the commercial nature of uk ports. in order to ensure that commercial ports are exempt from this regulation, ukip put forward an amendment to article 1.3. it is important to ensure that ports are entitled to operate fully as commercial businesses; this regulation does not allow it. furthermore, the ambiguity of the text creates uncertainty and puts essential future investment, growth and jobs at risk.
in writing. ‒ ukip have voted against this proposal as the regulation does not take into account the commercial nature of uk ports. in order to ensure that commercial ports are exempt from this regulation, ukip put forward an amendment to article 1.3. it is important to ensure that ports are entitled to operate fully as commercial businesses; this regulation does not allow it. furthermore, the ambiguity of the text creates uncertainty and puts essential future investment, growth and jobs at risk.
in writing. ‒ ukip have voted against this proposal as the regulation does not take into account the commercial nature of uk ports. in order to ensure that commercial ports are exempt from this regulation, ukip put forward an amendment to article 1.3. it is important to ensure that ports are entitled to operate fully as commercial businesses; this regulation does not allow it. furthermore, the ambiguity of the text creates uncertainty and puts essential future investment, growth and jobs at risk.
in writing. ‒ i have joined my labour colleagues in voting against the parliament’s port services report because i believe that, hitherto, the commission’s approach has failed to acknowledge the complexity and diversity of the eu’s ports sector and is applying a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach instead. parliament has managed to secure some improvements, albeit limited, to the commission’s proposal, but the draft legislation still remains unsophisticated and has very little added-value for port operators, workers and users. it is for this reason that i have voted against the parliament’s port services reportk, and i will continue working with uk ports and unions to oppose this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this report – i believe that competition between ports, rather than prescriptive regulation on ports’ internal operations, will be a greater driver for efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. i felt that it failed to add much for uk ports, while also representing a very cumbersome sledgehammer with which to achieve the required policy goals. many unions and other organisations have raised deep concerns with me about this legislation which i do not feel have been adequately addressed. the commission’s ‘one-size-fits-all’ proposal for a new port services regulation failed to recognise the complexity and diversity of the eu’s port sector. although parliament has managed to secure some limited improvements to the commission’s proposal, not least greater social aspects, this draft legislation remains a blunt instrument with very little added value for port operators, users or workers. for this reason, i voted against the parliament’s port services report and will continue to work with uk ports and unions to oppose this regulation.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s ‘one-size-fits-all’ proposal for a new port services regulation failed to recognise the complexity and diversity of the eu’s port sector. although parliament has managed to secure some limited improvements to the commission’s proposal, this draft legislation remains a blunt instrument with very little added value for port operators, users or workers. for this reason labour meps will continue to work with uk ports and unions to oppose this regulation.
in writing. – this proposed legislation seeks to harmonise indices across the eu, but doing so will not reflect the various cultural differences in economic activity between different member states, and accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – this proposed legislation seeks to harmonise indices across the eu, but doing so will not reflect the various cultural differences in economic activity between different member states, and accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – i voted against this report. this file is concerned with the harmonised index of consumer prices (hcip) the hcip deals with price stability. the problematic aspects of the text relates to the fact that there is a provision within the text which permits the possibility of allowing for future indexes in the following areas: narcotics, games of chance, prostitution, life insurance, which of course raises a number of issues. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep, it is consistent for me to vote against harmonisation in all forms. in this particular case, i note that there are challenges in regard to consumer pricing indices; in the uk, the index is vastly impacted by house prices and mortgage interest rates. given that private home ownership is at much higher levels there than in most of continental europe, this leads to a discrepancy. there is no real requirement for harmonisation or for a further eu regulation on this subject.
in writing. ‒ this proposed legislation seeks to harmonise indices across the eu, but doing so will not reflect the various cultural differences in economic activity between different member states, and accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this proposed legislation seeks to harmonise indices across the eu, but doing so will not reflect the various cultural differences in economic activity between different member states, and accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – this proposed legislation seeks to harmonise indices across the eu, but doing so will not reflect the various cultural differences in economic activity between different member states, and accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which reflects the new developments in consumer price statistics since 1995. getting these statistics right is an important tool in managing inflation and the wider economy. sensibly this regulation also prevents the uk from having to produce statistical data relevant only to euro area countries and ensures that national statistical authorities maintain control of statistical details and development.
in writing. ‒ this proposed legislation seeks to harmonise indices across the eu, but doing so will not reflect the various cultural differences in economic activity between different member states, and accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the current regulations regarding the harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicp) date back to 1995, and despite almost 20 amendments over the course of the past two decades, a new framework is long overdue. measuring inflation accurately is a key component of the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. hicp indices can have a major impact on economic variables such as wages, rents and interest rates – and can form the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. clearly then, the streamlining of the existing framework as set out by the commission and my s&d colleague mr gualtieri is badly needed. therefore i supported this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this proposed legislation seeks to harmonise indices across the eu, but doing so will not reflect the various cultural differences in economic activity between different member states, and accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – this proposed legislation seeks to harmonise indices across the eu; doing so will not reflect the various cultural differences in economic activity between different member states and accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ flawed statistics were partly responsible for the financial crisis in 2008. therefore, i voted in favour of the report as it improves the quality of indices of consumer prices, which are important to correct macroeconomic imbalances in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report. quality statistics and their comparability are a public good of fundamental importance for all european union citizens, researchers and those responsible for public policy in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which lays down a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicp) and of housing prices (hpi) at european union and national level.
in writing. ‒ this proposed legislation seeks to harmonise indices across the eu; doing so will not reflect the various cultural differences in economic activity between different member states and accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this proposed legislation seeks to harmonise indices across the eu; doing so will not reflect the various cultural differences in economic activity between different member states and accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this proposed legislation seeks to harmonise indices across the eu; doing so will not reflect the various cultural differences in economic activity between different member states and accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ one of the many factors that exacerbated the financial crisis in 2008 was that statistics on consumer prices were not consistent across the eu. i voted in favour of this legislative proposal because i believe that it will improve the quality of the indices used in measuring consumer prices – something which is important to get right when trying to correct macroeconomic imbalances across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which lays down a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicp) and of housing prices (hpi) at european union and national level. hicp can have a major impact by deflating economic variables such as wages, rents and interest rates – and can form the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions.
in writing. ‒ as ecr shadow rapporteur for this file, i sought to protect the uk from having to produce statistical data only relevant for eurozone countries and also to ensure that national statistical authorities maintain control of statistical detail and development. this was successfully achieved, and i was therefore able to support this agreement at today’s vote.
madam president, the fight against fraud has been a top priority for the eu for all the time i have been here, and before. what i welcome about this report is that it outlines the challenges in how we protect the eu’s financial interests, but by fighting fraud we can also retain the confidence of our citizens. this report highlights that there are some areas where a number of member states have to do more – including my own, the united kingdom. i think that it is important to recognise that a vast number of cases of fraud that the eu has to address are in fact in member states. the commission’s commitment in this report to publishing a regular eu anti—corruption report is welcome, as are the calls to harmonise the methodology behind the calculation of error rates at both eu and member state levels. however, a meaningful fight against fraud means that there must be legislation regarding the minimum level of protection for whistle—blowers.
madam president, i welcome the report which deals with the protection of the european union's financial interests. the report describes very well the problems we encounter when there is a breach of the rules, whether it is negligent or intentional, that is, there is fraud. however, i did not endorse the report as such, i abstained, and that is why i am taking the opportunity to explain it here. i personally do not see the establishment of a new office, namely the european public prosecutor's office, as a suitable means of combating this scourge. i am convinced that this new office will not improve the fight against fraud, that fraud must be combated by the judicial authorities in the individual national states and that the judiciary as such can recognize and condemn the illegal actions of those who abuse subsidies, for example.
in writing. – this report admits that the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% greater than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%, and that 1 649 irregularities were fraudulent. it recognises that fraud in tor is up by 196% from 2013 to 2014, and that just 24% of the money is recovered. such honesty is commendable. however, it fundamentally fails to grasp that the causes of the problem are the systems themselves – particularly around the bureaucratic nature of vat – and its proposed solutions involve more action by the commission and further harmonisation. one-size-fits-all has been a proven failure; this report calls for more of it.
in writing. – this report admits that the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% greater than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%, and that 1 649 irregularities were fraudulent. it recognises that fraud in tor is up by 196% from 2013 to 2014, and that just 24% of the money is recovered. such honesty is commendable. however, it fundamentally fails to grasp that the causes of the problem are the systems themselves – particularly around the bureaucratic nature of vat – and its proposed solutions involve more action by the commission and further harmonisation. one-size-fits-all has been a proven failure; this report calls for more of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report. the report tells us that corruption in the eea is in the region of €120 billion. the same report says that the fraudulent use of uk taxpayers’ money is ‘often linked to insufficient knowledge of complex rules and requirements’. most interestingly with regard to what the eu refers to as ‘own resources’, which is another phrase for ‘what uk citizens pay via vat’, fraud has increased 191% between 2013 and 2014. the european ombudsman in the report tells us that the ‘european commission’s credibility and seriousness have been endangered’ as it does not follow its own suggested guidelines. this report also calls for the implementation of the european public prosecutor’s office. i am vehemently opposed to the eppo as i am not in favour of the eu having a ‘justice system’ that would stand above the uk justice system.
in writing. ‒ this report admits that the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% greater than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%, and that 1 649 irregularities were fraudulent. it recognises that fraud in tor is up by 196% from 2013 to 2014, and that just 24% of the money is recovered. such honesty is commendable. however, it fundamentally fails to grasp that the causes of the problem are the systems themselves – particularly around the bureaucratic nature of vat – and its proposed solutions involve more action by the commission and further harmonisation. one-size-fits-all has been a proven failure; this report calls for more of it.
in writing. ‒ this report admits that the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% greater than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%, and that 1 649 irregularities were fraudulent. it recognises that fraud in tor is up by 196% from 2013 to 2014, and that just 24% of the money is recovered. such honesty is commendable. however, it fundamentally fails to grasp that the causes of the problem are the systems themselves – particularly around the bureaucratic nature of vat – and its proposed solutions involve more action by the commission and further harmonisation. one-size-fits-all has been a proven failure; this report calls for more of it.
in writing. – this report admits that the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% greater than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%, and that 1 649 irregularities were fraudulent. it recognises that fraud in tor is up by 196% from 2013 to 2014, and that just 24% of the money is recovered. such honesty is commendable. however, it fundamentally fails to grasp that the causes of the problem are the systems themselves – particularly around the bureaucratic nature of vat – and its proposed solutions involve more action by the commission and further harmonisation. one-size-fits-all has been a proven failure; this report calls for more of it.
in writing. ‒ there are a number of positive elements in this report that i can support, although these are overshadowed by references to the harmonisation of vat and, in particular, the call for a swift adoption of the european public prosecutor’s office regulation. as a result of these negative aspects i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ this report admits that the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% greater than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%, and that 1 649 irregularities were fraudulent. it recognises that fraud in tor is up by 196% from 2013 to 2014, and that just 24% of the money is recovered. such honesty is commendable. however, it fundamentally fails to grasp that the causes of the problem are the systems themselves – particularly around the bureaucratic nature of vat – and its proposed solutions involve more action by the commission and further harmonisation. one-size-fits-all has been a proven failure; this report calls for more of it.
in writing. ‒ this report admits that the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% greater than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%, and that 1 649 irregularities were fraudulent. it recognises that fraud in tor is up by 196% from 2013 to 2014, and that just 24% of the money is recovered. such honesty is commendable. however, it fundamentally fails to grasp that the causes of the problem are the systems themselves – particularly around the bureaucratic nature of vat – and its proposed solutions involve more action by the commission and further harmonisation. one-size-fits-all has been a proven failure; this report calls for more of it.
in writing. ‒ the scale and complexity of the eu’s financial interests are such that fraud is inevitable – the number of ukip meps to have faced criminal trials over the years is testament to that. this house must continue to take these matters seriously and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – this report admits that the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% greater than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%, and that 1 649 irregularities were fraudulent. it recognises that fraud in tor is up by 196% from 2013 to 2014, and that just 24% of the money is recovered. such honesty is commendable. however, it fundamentally fails to grasp that the causes of the problem are the systems themselves – particularly around the bureaucratic nature of vat – and its proposed solutions involve more action by the commission and further harmonisation. one-size-fits-all has been a proven failure; this report calls for more of it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, which expresses a clear and fair picture of the main challenges in the protection of eu financial interests. i welcome the commission’s commitment to publishing a regular eu anti-corruption report and reiterate our call for the promotion of legislation on the minimum level of protection for whistle-blowers in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which calls on the relevant authorities in the member states to perform better controls and to use all available information to avoid errors and irregular payments involving eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which expresses a clear and fair picture of the main challenges in the protection of eu financial interests. i welcome the commission’s commitment to publishing a regular eu anti-corruption report and reiterate our call for the promotion of legislation on the minimum level of protection for whistle-blowers in the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report admits that the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% greater than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%, and that 1 649 irregularities were fraudulent. it recognises that fraud in tor is up by 196% from 2013 to 2014, and that just 24% of the money is recovered. such honesty is commendable. however, it fundamentally fails to grasp that the causes of the problem are the systems themselves – particularly around the bureaucratic nature of vat – and its proposed solutions involve more action by the commission and further harmonisation. one-size-fits-all has been a proven failure; this report calls for more of it.
in writing. ‒ this report admits that the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% greater than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%, and that 1 649 irregularities were fraudulent. it recognises that fraud in tor is up by 196% from 2013 to 2014, and that just 24% of the money is recovered. such honesty is commendable. however, it fundamentally fails to grasp that the causes of the problem are the systems themselves – particularly around the bureaucratic nature of vat – and its proposed solutions involve more action by the commission and further harmonisation. one-size-fits-all has been a proven failure; this report calls for more of it.
in writing. ‒ there is a clear and fair picture of the principle challenges on the protection of eu financial interests in this report. hence, i welcome the commission’s commitment to publishing regular reports on corruption in the eu, ‘eu anti-corruption reports’ and furthermore i reiterate, along with my eplp and socialist colleagues, a call for the promotion of legislation which presents protection for whistle-blowers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which expresses a clear and fair picture of the main challenges in the protection of eu financial interests. i welcome the commission’s commitment to publishing a regular eu anti-corruption report and reiterate our call for the promotion of legislation on the minimum level of protection for whistle-blowers in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which expresses a clear and fair picture of the main challenges on the protection of eu financial interests. i welcome the commission’s commitment to publishing a regular eu anti-corruption report and reiterate our call for the promotion of legislation on the minimum level of protection for whistle-blowers in the eu. it is absolutely vital that we maintain, and where possible improve, our rigour in full financial transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it provides a clear overview of the main challenges in the protection of eu financial interests. i welcome the commission’s commitment to publishing a regular eu anti-corruption report and reiterate our call for the promotion of legislation on the minimum level of protection for whistle-blowers in the eu. transparency is of the utmost importance for citizens.
madam president, happy international women’s day to you and to all the other women here. it is good that we have had an opportunity to vote on so many reports today and debate women’s issues, and i think that it is important for us to address gender mainstreaming. but, given that it is 2016, it is, to my mind, high time that we dealt with this and put the issue to bed. the reason that this has not happened is that the member states have been quite slow to implement many of our recommendations. when we look at the gender pay gap, the figures in the uk show that we still have something like a 9.4% pay gap and over the course of their working lives women are likely to earn gbp 300 000 less than their male counterparts. we need greater action if we are to make progress that enables women to fulfil their potential. i am particularly concerned at the lack of female representation in science and engineering and especially, as i have witnessed myself, in the ever-growing it sector.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for 40% gender quotas, more gender programmes, changes to rules of procedure and gender budgeting internally within the eu parliament. ukip voted against the eu parliament spending any more money on internal administration.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for 40% gender quotas, more gender programmes, changes to rules of procedure and gender budgeting internally within the eu parliament. ukip voted against the eu parliament spending any more money on internal administration.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report on gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament. it is important that the concept of gender mainstreaming is incorporated into the working procedures and policy work of the european parliament and its meps. more attention should be paid to the issues of gender equality in all parliament committees, not just the women’s rights and employment committees. meps should consider carefully how all policy measures can have impacts, both direct and indirect, impacts on women. equality between women and men is recognised by the eu as a fundamental right – meps must take efforts to integrate gender aspects into their work in all committees.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. i strongly believe in the principle of equality and that everyone should be treated equally irrespective of gender. i am opposed to gender quotas because i believe they are discriminatory and demeaning to women.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for 40% gender quotas, more gender programmes, changes to rules of procedure and gender budgeting internally within the eu parliament. ukip voted against the eu parliament spending any more money on internal administration.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for 40% gender quotas, more gender programmes, changes to rules of procedure and gender budgeting internally within the eu parliament. ukip voted against the eu parliament spending any more money on internal administration.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for 40% gender quotas, more gender programmes, changes to rules of procedure and gender budgeting internally within the eu parliament. ukip voted against the eu parliament spending any more money on internal administration.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for 40% gender quotas, more gender programmes, changes to rules of procedure and gender budgeting internally within the eu parliament. ukip voted against the eu parliament spending any more money on internal administration.
in writing. ‒ julie girling on behalf of the uk delegation. the uk delegation firmly supports the principle of gender mainstreaming, recognising and subsequently welcoming its potential to equalise the current disparities between genders. within the european parliament itself, changes can and should be made and so we welcome those paragraphs that call for more women in senior positions, help women to juggle work-life balance, highlight the need for better training on lgbtiq issues and encourage eu policymaking that is more mindful of a gender perspective. however, while being supportive of efforts to ensure greater equality, there are a number of elements of this report that the uk delegation cannot support. rather than focusing on tangible results, this report is more concerned with bolstering the femm committee’s position within the european parliament. instead of using this opportunity to implement a more long-term and meaningful strategy to help and support women, this report seeks to instil gender budgeting which poses the risk of diverting funds from other, much needed activity. as a result of this, the uk delegation abstained overall, for this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for 40% gender quotas, more gender programmes, changes to rules of procedure and gender budgeting internally within the eu parliament. ukip voted against the eu parliament spending any more money on internal administration.
in writing. ‒ it is appropriate that we are voting on this report on what is international women’s day and, whilst parliament has done important work in this area, we should continue to ensure that this report’s recommendations are adhered to.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for 40% gender quotas, more gender programmes, changes to rules of procedure and gender budgeting internally within the eu parliament. ukip voted against the eu parliament spending any more money on internal administration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it calls for gender mainstreaming to be made a continuous process, and gender equality to be integrated at all levels, in all areas and into all stages of policymaking.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which points out that gender mainstreaming is not a policy goal in itself, but a key means of achieving gender equality, always in combination with other specific actions and policies targeted at advancing gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. gender inequality can only be overcome if it is tackled holistically in all areas of life, and in all areas of decision-making. gender mainstreaming is one of the great policy innovations of the european union, and it seeks to include a gender perspective in policy-making at all levels, and also ensure that women, and persons of all gender identities, are equally represented in decision-making. as a co-legislator of european laws, effective gender mainstreaming in the european parliament is key.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for 40% gender quotas, more gender programmes, changes to rules of procedure and gender budgeting internally within the eu parliament. ukip voted against the eu parliament spending any more money on internal administration.
in writing. - i'm sorry i couldn't support that report. i'm a proponent of gender equality and i support measures that actually improve the status of women in society. unfortunately, what is contained in this proposal does not fall under such measures. moreover, such as the quotas for the representation of men and women in the parliamentary committees of the european parliament, go against the democratic principles whereby voters decide who they elect to the ep.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for 40% gender quotas, more gender programmes, changes to rules of procedure and gender budgeting internally within the eu parliament. ukip voted against the eu parliament spending any more money on internal administration.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for 40% gender quotas, more gender programmes, changes to rules of procedure and gender budgeting internally within the eu parliament. ukip voted against the eu parliament spending any more money on internal administration.
in writing. ‒ today is international women’s day and i could not think of a more appropriate time to have this report placed in front of the chamber. gender inequality, in my view – a view that is shared by many of my colleagues in the s&d and in the eplp, as well as across the chamber – can only be overcome if it is tackled in a holistic way: addressing every aspect of our lives. this innovation of gender-mainstreaming is a great tool which seeks to include a gender perspective in policy-making at all levels. it will ensure that women, and persons of all gender identities, are equally represented in decision-making. as a co-legislator of european laws, effective gender mainstreaming in the european parliament is key.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of this report. gender inequality can only be overcome if it is tackled holistically in all areas of life, and in all areas of decision-making. gender mainstreaming is one of the great policy innovations of the european union, and it seeks to include a gender perspective in policy-making at all levels, and also ensure that women, and persons of all gender identities are equally represented in decision-making. as a co-legislator of european laws, effective gender mainstreaming in the european parliament is key.
in writing. ‒ gender inequality can only be overcome if it is tackled holistically in all areas of life, and in all areas of decision-making. gender mainstreaming is one of the great policy innovations of the european union, and it seeks to include a gender perspective in policy-making at all levels, and also ensure that women, and persons of all gender identities are equally represented in decision-making. as a co-legislator of european laws, effective gender mainstreaming in the european parliament is key, and i hope it will have far-reaching effects on the eu’s promotion of gender equality in europe. i worked on this report and am therefore delighted it has been adopted by a large majority. i look forward to working with my colleagues across political groups and with parliament’s secretariats to implement the proposals we have now committed to, and hope to encourage member states to follow suit.
madam president, i am proud that the european parliament is speaking up for one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, female refugees, and i congratulate my colleague mary honeyball, who has steered this report through parliament. girl and women refugees arriving on european shores now outnumber men and, as if having to flee the horrors of war was not bad enough, they have additional risk and hardships to face just because they are women: sexual abuse, violence and discrimination. the measures needed to protect these mothers, daughters and sisters are clear: asylum procedures that take their vulnerability into account, better cooperation between eu member states to tackle human traffickers, and organising reception facilities in a way that allows women to sleep and shower separately. i am shocked by some on the right who have attempted to thwart action to protect these women on account of events elsewhere.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while we absolutely sympathise the sentiments of the report regarding those who have suffered abuse and persecution and the need to make sure that decent care and facilities are available, the report also called for legal routes for asylum in to the eu, an expansion of the eu migration and asylum policies and more burden sharing of refugees between all member states. the eu has caused this crisis and is putting everyone at risk, so ukip voted against further expansion of eu control.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while we absolutely sympathise the sentiments of the report regarding those who have suffered abuse and persecution and the need to make sure that decent care and facilities are available, the report also called for legal routes for asylum in to the eu, an expansion of the eu migration and asylum policies and more burden sharing of refugees between all member states. the eu has caused this crisis and is putting everyone at risk, so ukip voted against further expansion of eu control.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this progressive report which was concerned with the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers. recent research conducted by amnesty international shows that women and girl refugees face violence, assault, exploitation and sexual harassment at every stage of their journey, including on european soil. the organisation interviewed 40 refugee women and girls in northern europe in december 2015 who travelled from turkey to greece and then across the balkans. all the women described feeling threatened and unsafe during the journey. many reported that in almost all of the countries they passed through they experienced physical abuse and financial exploitation, being groped or pressured to have sex by smugglers, security staff or other refugees. it is absolutely unacceptable that after living through the horrors of the war in iraq and syria these women have risked everything to find safety for themselves and their children, but from the moment they begin this journey they are again exposed to violence and exploitation, with little support or protection.
in writing. ‒ whilst i have the greatest possible concern for the plight of all those fleeing war and persecution, primarily from syria, i feel that this report spectacularly misses the point. women and children are often left behind, both in syria and in refugee camps, whilst those who undertake dangerous journeys across europe from safe country to safe country at the hands of smugglers are predominantly male. this leaves women at far greater risk in their country of origin and in refugee camps, and therefore any report on the situation of women refugees should consider what steps can be taken to tackle this situation. instead, it focuses on other issues and neglects those who have not arrived within europe. once again this is a ‘little european’ report which fails to understand the global issue.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while we absolutely sympathise the sentiments of the report regarding those who have suffered abuse and persecution and the need to make sure that decent care and facilities are available, the report also called for legal routes for asylum in to the eu, an expansion of the eu migration and asylum policies and more burden sharing of refugees between all member states. the eu has caused this crisis and is putting everyone at risk, so ukip voted against further expansion of eu control.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while we absolutely sympathise the sentiments of the report regarding those who have suffered abuse and persecution and the need to make sure that decent care and facilities are available, the report also called for legal routes for asylum in to the eu, an expansion of the eu migration and asylum policies and more burden sharing of refugees between all member states. the eu has caused this crisis and is putting everyone at risk, so ukip voted against further expansion of eu control.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while we absolutely sympathise the sentiments of the report regarding those who have suffered abuse and persecution and the need to make sure that decent care and facilities are available, the report also called for legal routes for asylum in to the eu, an expansion of the eu migration and asylum policies and more burden sharing of refugees between all member states. the eu has caused this crisis and is putting everyone at risk, so ukip voted against further expansion of eu control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, drafted by fellow labour mep, mary honeyball. women refugees and asylum seekers often face violence, assault, exploitation and sexual harassment at every stage of their journey, including on european soil. women – and indeed children – who are entitled to claim asylum are being coerced into transactional sex and forced into prostitution to pay for travel documents or a place in a boat or lorry. they need safer alternatives, as this report sets out. the specific protection and integration needs of women refugees and asylum seekers have too often been overlooked. to meet the needs of everyone entitled to protection, our asylum laws and policies must be fully gender sensitive at every stage. on international women’s day labour meps are sending a very clear message that action must be taken.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was drafted by labour mep mary honeyball. women refugees and asylum seekers have specific protection and integration needs which have too often been overlooked. to meet the needs of everyone seeking protection, our asylum laws and policies must be fully gender sensitive at every stage. research shows that women and girls face violence, assault, exploitation and sexual harassment at every stage of their journey, including on european soil. women – and indeed children – who are entitled to claim asylum are being coerced into transactional sex and forced into prostitution to pay for travel documents or a place in a boat or lorry. they need safer alternatives, as this report sets out. on international women’s day labour meps are sending a very clear message that action must be taken to protect women and girls seeking asylum in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i condemn all forms of violence towards women and girls, wherever it takes place. this report rightly highlights the vulnerable situation in which female asylum seekers, often fleeing sexual violence, find themselves. however, i cannot support the view that the responsibility and cost for asylum procedures be shared by all 28 member states. nor should member states be forced to take part in resettlement programmes. i therefore abstained in the vote on this matter.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while we absolutely sympathise the sentiments of the report regarding those who have suffered abuse and persecution and the need to make sure that decent care and facilities are available, the report also called for legal routes for asylum in to the eu, an expansion of the eu migration and asylum policies and more burden sharing of refugees between all member states. the eu has caused this crisis and is putting everyone at risk, so ukip voted against further expansion of eu control.
in writing. ‒ the uk delegation is fully committed to the protection and advancement of women’s rights and we endeavour to ensure that equality for all is fully achieved. significant numbers of women, however, continue to be subjected to gross mistreatment and violence, and consequently remain in a state of immense vulnerability. women refugees and asylum seekers are particularly susceptible to such conditions, and it has become abundantly clear that these issues need to be addressed. we firmly support efforts to protect women from sexual exploitation and abuse, including human trafficking and fgm. we also welcome moves to ensure that women are legally recognised as individuals in their own right. there are nevertheless a few paragraphs of this report which raise concern and have consequently resulted in split votes. for example, we cannot support action that interferes with the legal competency of member states or the attempts to dictate the terms of asylum at the national level. it is not that we do not agree with such points. rather, we believe that these demands go beyond the scope of the femm committee and infringe upon the principle of subsidiarity. for these reasons we abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while we absolutely sympathise the sentiments of the report regarding those who have suffered abuse and persecution and the need to make sure that decent care and facilities are available, the report also called for legal routes for asylum in to the eu, an expansion of the eu migration and asylum policies and more burden sharing of refugees between all member states. the eu has caused this crisis and is putting everyone at risk, so ukip voted against further expansion of eu control.
in writing. ‒ europe is currently facing an unprecedented human tragedy as ever-increasing numbers flee war and oppression to seek asylum in the eu. in the asylum process it is clear that women refugees and asylum seekers experience certain unique hardships – sometimes through officialdom whose systems are geared towards men, sometimes through criminality in the form of sexual abuse and rape. this is an important report, which i supported.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while we absolutely sympathise the sentiments of the report regarding those who have suffered abuse and persecution and the need to make sure that decent care and facilities are available, the report also called for legal routes for asylum in to the eu, an expansion of the eu migration and asylum policies and more burden sharing of refugees between all member states. the eu has caused this crisis and is putting everyone at risk, so ukip voted against further expansion of eu control.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it calls for measures to ensure that the basic needs and human rights of women seeking asylum are addressed, including their protection from violence. the resolution sets out new comprehensive eu-wide gender guidelines as part of wider reforms to migration and asylum policy, and urgent action to improve safety and security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was drafted by labour mep mary honeyball. women refugees and asylum seekers have specific protection and integration needs which have too often been overlooked. to meet the needs of everyone seeking protection, our asylum laws and policies must be fully gender-sensitive at every stage. research shows that women and girls face violence, assault, exploitation and sexual harassment at every stage of their journey, including on european soil. women – and indeed children – who are entitled to claim asylum are being coerced into transactional sex and forced into prostitution to pay for travel documents or a place in a boat or lorry. they need safer alternatives, as this report sets out. on international women’s day, labour meps are sending a very clear message that action must be taken to protect women and girls seeking asylum in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which: emphasises the urgent need to immediately open safe and legal asylum routes, in order to counter smuggling networks and to increasingly enable women, children, the elderly and people with disabilities to seek refuge without risking their lives; is deeply concerned about deaths, pushbacks and grave human rights violations at the eu external borders; takes the view that responsibilities and costs and benefits should be shared by all 28 member states and not just by the countries of first arrival; regrets the lack of solidarity among member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was drafted by labour mep mary honeyball. women refugees and asylum seekers have specific protection and integration needs which have too often been overlooked. to meet the needs of everyone seeking protection, our asylum laws and policies must be fully gender sensitive at every stage. research shows that women and girls face violence, assault, exploitation and sexual harassment at every stage of their journey, including on european soil. women – and indeed children – who are entitled to claim asylum are being coerced into transactional sex and forced into prostitution to pay for travel documents or a place in a boat or lorry. they need safer alternatives, as this report sets out. on international women’s day labour meps are sending a very clear message that action must be taken to protect women and girls seeking asylum in the eu
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while we absolutely sympathise the sentiments of the report regarding those who have suffered abuse and persecution and the need to make sure that decent care and facilities are available, the report also called for legal routes for asylum in to the eu, an expansion of the eu migration and asylum policies and more burden sharing of refugees between all member states. the eu has caused this crisis and is putting everyone at risk, so ukip voted against further expansion of eu control.
in writing. ‒ regrettably, i had to abstain on the motion dealing with the situation of refugees and asylum seekers, because, unfortunately, to the rational proposals calling for the improvement of the situation of the described groups of women, there were again added provisions blaming countries with different views on the migration crisis and quotas for a lack of solidarity. let us not take away the right of the member states to decide their own positions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while we absolutely sympathise the sentiments of the report regarding those who have suffered abuse and persecution and the need to make sure that decent care and facilities are available, the report also called for legal routes for asylum in to the eu, an expansion of the eu migration and asylum policies and more burden sharing of refugees between all member states. the eu has caused this crisis and is putting everyone at risk, so ukip voted against further expansion of eu control.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while we absolutely sympathise the sentiments of the report regarding those who have suffered abuse and persecution and the need to make sure that decent care and facilities are available, the report also called for legal routes for asylum in to the eu, an expansion of the eu migration and asylum policies and more burden sharing of refugees between all member states. the eu has caused this crisis and is putting everyone at risk, so ukip voted against further expansion of eu control.
in writing. ‒ i would like to congratulate my colleague and fellow labour member mary honeyball on this report and all the work that she has put into it. the report that was put in front of the chamber today calls for a number of measures to ensure that women’s needs are met throughout the asylum process, allowing for gender-specific training for staff, including comprehensive training on sexual violence, trafficking and female genital mutilation (fgm). indeed, in 2015, about one million people crossed the mediterranean into europe, with women and children making up around 35% of the refugees. we need to highlight the exceptionally vulnerable situation that female asylum seekers and refugees in the european union face. having fled persecution in their home countries, seeking a place of safety, many become victims of sexual violence, trafficking and other violent crimes, which disproportionately affect women. i want to see a more gender sensitive asylum procedure through the measures outlines in this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. women refugees and asylum seekers have specific protection and integration needs which have too often been overlooked. to meet the needs of everyone seeking protection, our asylum laws and policies must be fully gender sensitive at every stage. research shows that women and girls face violence, assault, exploitation and sexual harassment at every stage of their journey, including on european soil. on international women’s day labour meps are sending a very clear message that action must be taken to protect women and girls seeking asylum in the eu.
in writing. ‒ on international women's day, myself and other labour meps are sending a very clear message that action must be taken to protect women and girls seeking asylum in the eu. i was very proud to vote in favour of this report. women refugees and asylum seekers have specific needs that can be overlooked by an asylum policy that does not take into account their gender. to meet the needs of everyone seeking protection, our asylum laws and policies must be fully gender—sensitive throughout the process from arrival to integration. research has shown that women and girls face violence, assault, exploitation and sexual harassment at every stage of their journey, including on european soil. gender based violence is often aimed at the most vulnerable, this leads to women – and indeed children – who are entitled to claim asylum finding their indeterminate legal status being exploited to coerce them into transactional sex and forced into prostitution to pay for travel documents or a place in a boat or lorry. to prevent this kind of gendered violence there needs to be adequate processes and safe passage for them to be able to claim asylum without facing this kind of degradation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important report which was drafted by labour mep mary honeyball. women refugees and asylum seekers have specific protection and integration needs which have too often been overlooked. to meet the needs of everyone seeking protection, our asylum laws and policies must be fully gender sensitive at every stage. research shows that women and girls face violence, assault, exploitation and sexual harassment at every stage of their journey, including on european soil. women – and indeed children – who are entitled to claim asylum are being coerced into transactional sex and forced into prostitution to pay for travel documents or a place in a boat or lorry. they need safer alternatives, as this report sets out. this also includes the situation of women refugees in appalling makeshift conditions across the eu and on our borders, as in the calais and dunkirk ‘jungles’. member states have not provided the humanitarian response that these refugees require, and they must do so urgently. on international women’s day we are sending a very clear message that action must be taken to protect women and girls seeking asylum in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was drafted by my labour colleague mary honeyball. women refugees and asylum seekers have specific protection and integration needs which have too often been overlooked. research shows that women and girls face violence, assault, exploitation and sexual harassment at every stage of their journey, including on european soil. women – and indeed children – who are entitled to claim asylum need safer alternatives, as this report sets out. on international women’s day labour meps are sending a very clear message that action must be taken to protect women and girls seeking asylum in the eu.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the munich- agreed fragile ceasefire prevailing now in syria offers the international community the political opportunity to press strongly and implement the original un geneva peace agreements. it is an important step forward, establishing a lasting settlement based on an inclusive government in damascus that can represent all syrians. however, attaining detente between syria’s warring factions, and ultimately the cessation of the brutal proxy civil war, hinges on russia’s political and military interventions. we share with russia the common objective of eliminating the evil scourge of isis and other extreme radical islamist groups in syria. yet, under the bargain, russia must also honour its obligations, demonstrate its compliance and avoid further provocation by ceasing attacks against all anti-assad syrian civilians and moderate opposition groups and desist from helping to create a greater refugee exodus in order to destabilise europe and get payback against chancellor merkel and the eu sanctions. as the peace process gathers momentum, moscow must realize that its behaviour will be closely scrutinised. only with russia playing its role as a responsible international interlocutor and actor can peace be brought to this blighted country.
mr president, for too long, when we debate syria in this chamber, there has been only despair. before last week, once again, sceptics said that the ceasefire in syria would not hold and humanitarian assistance would remain undelivered. thankfully, although there have been incidents to the contrary, the sceptics have been proved wrong. civilian deaths have fallen by 90% since the truce came into force, according to media reports just this morning. our task politically this week and in the weeks to follow is to keep trying to turn despair into hope. the high representative should have the european parliament’s full support to use the international collaboration that we have achieved to make tentative moves which could turn a temporary ceasefire into a permanent peace. in the remainder of this speech i apologise both to colleagues and perhaps most of all to those who are suffering in syria, because i have to refer to a different type of sceptic: those who, i am disgusted to say, are from my own country and are seeking to exploit the tragic flow of refugees from syria by turning it into a cynical political argument to inflame opposition to my country’s membership of the european union. like boris johnson, who referred to the sincere compassion for syrian refugees as ‘britain-bashers’ moral outrage’ and then repeated the deliberate myth that ‘many of them are arriving in europe as economic migrants’. or the leader of ukip, who by saying that isis is using this route to put jihadists on european soil is giving publicity and encouragement to the very people he says he wants to deter. these people are contemptible. they will fail on syria, just as sceptics about syria will fail. there is genuine compassion in the european parliament in the matter of solving this refugee crisis. they will not win. my country will remain a member of the european union, and european efforts, rather than those of any one country on its own, are needed to respond to the humanitarian crisis that is the tragedy of syria and to contribute to the peace which is necessary to end this conflict. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card questions under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– well, maybe mr howitt knows something that we do not, but is he disagreeing with the first vice-president of the commission, mr timmermans, who has said that most of the people who are entering europe are from syria? does he also disagree with official asylum figures in the uk, which say that the most of the people who came to the uk and claimed asylum last year actually came from eritrea and not syria? mr howitt, you are scaremongering and you are playing a political game. so please answer. do you disagree with mr timmermans and are you disagreeing with official british asylum figures?
blue-card answer.– whether it is the commission or the united nations high commissioner for refugees, the major country of origin for a million refugees who have come to europe is syria. the majority are genuine refugees fleeing war, death and persecution. they are victims of a six-year bloody civil war and this european union will contribute to international diplomacy to deal with peace and conflict resolution. we reject the arguments on the other side. (applause)
mr president, i say to ms mogherini: thank you for a very impressive update on the situation in syria and i echo your comments and praise for mr de mistura. if anything, you were rather modest about your own role in this, and the role of your services and the european union in cohering the international community into values-based cooperation. the eu does not do guns and tanks and bombs, thank goodness, but we can play a role acting together to facilitate a dialogue which goes somewhere. i very strongly endorse mr howitt’s position, from my party, the scottish national party, in making sure that we as the united kingdom continue to remain part of that framework. you are right: the cooperation is starting to deliver. that is the best description of it. there is an immediate humanitarian crisis, and i entirely support your efforts on that. i am also very keen to stress the support for lebanon and jordan; these are fragile states that need our total support. my question would be about accountability: there can be no peace without accountability on all sides, for all crimes in this conflict. i am glad to hear of the reopening of the damascus office of echo. but my question would be: to what extent are your services assisting ngos – or indeed individuals – domestically and internationally in gathering the evidence that we will need to ensure that accountability is part of syria’s eventual solution?
mr president, as we know, syria is probably the most serious issue that the world faces today. we have seen the evilness of islamic state. we have seen the televised burnings, we have seen the drownings, the beheadings, and the throwing of people off roofs for simply being homosexual and, if they do not die, kicking them to death on the ground. it is these extremists who want to take over control, not just of syria, but the whole region. but let us not forget that back in 2013 we had all western politicians, including john mccain and our own foreign policy genius, guy verhofstadt, telling us that we must arm these rebels – these nice cuddly rebels – who included the al-nusra front and the syrian mujahideen. thank god that did not happen. i would simply like to ask ms mogherini why we continue to do nothing about saudi arabia and why we are continuing to throw money at turkey and are inviting turkey to join the european union when they are the funders of terrorism.
mr president, hundreds of syrians nationwide used the cessation of hostilities to resume anti-government protests calling for the overthrow of assad in favour of a free, democratic and united syria. it was a reminder of how the conflict emerged in the spring of 2011. however, the reality is that this is not a cessation, but merely a reduction, of hostilities. during the first week of the agreement, 135 people were killed in areas covered by the deal, and 32 of them were civilians. the violations must stop in order to create a favourable environment for the start of negotiations. the intra-syrian negotiations have to resume in order to move forward into a comprehensive ceasefire and a long—overdue political transition as outlined in the vienna peace agreement. it must be a syrian-led and a syrian-owned resolution. the international community must work in good faith to implement the agreement alongside the agreement reached in munich. russia and iran need to exert their influence over syria’s regime and other parties to respect the truce. we need to seize this opportunity to make it work on all fronts – military, diplomatic and humanitarian. progress in getting aid to besieged areas of syria is welcome. there must be no obstruction of humanitarian aid, and full access must be allowed throughout syria. the international community has to be much bolder in this approach. we must not waste this chance; this needs to be the year in which the bloodshed in syria comes to an end. it is our common goal to defeat daesh and solve the refugee crisis. therefore, it is in all our interests to support the syrian peace process, which can lead to a stable, inclusive government and has the support of all syrians. ( the speaker refused a blue-card question from mr buonnano)
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, today we are here, surely, to speak about implementation of rules. it is not an exciting subject, but rules are what will save us in the end. and if we do not play by the rules then why are we here in the first place? rules and implementation do not always allow for flashy announcements, claims of big victories or headlines about vital breakthroughs, but they do matter. it was, therefore, disappointing following yesterday’s summit with turkey to hear that once again, for the second time in 12 months during this crisis, our rule book has been torn up and thrown in the bin. we must first make the rules we have in place work, or at least give them a chance to work and to make them work better, rather than always producing new policies based on desperation. i am supportive of a lot of the proposals the commission has come forward with, building upon and enhancing the mechanisms we already have in place. and they will help us protect the external borders, help make returns more efficient and offer solidarity and assistance through easo and frontex. vice-president timmermans has offered us assurances today in all those respects. but nowhere in the current established rules does it say that we should take actions in contradiction to our own asylum laws, hand over huge sums of money with no proper guarantees in return and abandon the copenhagen criteria in exchange for nothing more than a promise. silver-bullet solutions do not exist, relocation does not yet work and i fear any deal we make with turkey and its current proposed form without a proper legal framework and a system of incremental payments, targets and benchmarks will create nothing more than another failure, at a time when we really need success. i fear that george bernard shaw was too right when he said ‘we learn from history that we learn nothing from history’. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question.– thank you for accepting this blue—card question. would you not agree with me that the situation with immigration is the biggest single factor where the eu is totally out of touch with its constituents and one of the biggest reasons why there is such a backlash against this organisation? would you also agree with me that the very fact that the desperate measure which the eu takes to try to deal with this crisis, which is to go cap-in-hand and grovel to turkey to deal with this situation, just illustrates the weakness of this organisation?
blue-card answer.– thank you very much for those very interesting questions, which i will have to reflect on for a while, but in the meantime perhaps i could just say to you that if you had listened to what i just said in my speech, you would realise the way forward is a positive way forward, with the uk fully participating in putting more sense into the decisions of the european union. if we were to leave the european union – and i know this gentleman would like us to – we would no longer be an influence for good, doing what we can with the experience of people like myself, former immigration ministers and others to help europe to solve a crisis which frankly needs to be solved.
madam president, as mr timmermans said, i think: we have a plan. to be fair to the commission, they have had many plans, and many with integrity. when eur 700 million was pumped into greece recently, it proved that something can happen, something valuable can happen with the humanitarian instrument. but clearly it is not enough and we know that many of the members who are engaged in this crisis, who are actually doing something in this crisis, know that the commission has had plans for more than two years. the problem is the council; the problem is the incoherent, often aggressive, reaction to established plans on a number of fields. so we now have two pillars to this solution: we have a set of plans from the commission, dealing with what is most difficult from dublin, from revising our agencies to do things that they were never expected to do so that we now have a border agency, we have a revamping of our asylum support office – major revisions within months which we will all have to do our work on in this chamber. then we have the plan on turkey and in the few seconds that i have, i just want to caution that we do not breach international law when we deal with the turkey plan, that we stick to our principles and international law in all that we do. but let us just remember that we do not have the luxury in this house of not doing our work in this parliament where some of the major issues that the commission will be dealing with were set out earlier, because we do not have the luxury to leave people to die or to leave people to be injured or to leave young unaccompanied children to go missing in the interior of europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you for the question. the issue concerning the council is not to blame the council on generalities, and we should not deal in generalities. it is the extremes in the council and that some countries can try and mop up the responsibilities of other countries, and that is not acceptable in a european union that wants an organised and compassionate response. it is just unacceptable that some countries can try and do everything and some countries can sit and watch as other countries do something. the commission has plans; those plans would have matured over two years, and we would now be in a position of activity. but we are not, because some members of the council have been aggressive and done nothing. (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – actually it was a blue card for mr brok, before he leaves. on sunday, while mrs merkel was appeasing mr erdoğan, did she protest about the closure and raid on the zaman newspaper? was she respecting human rights? did she raise the human rights of those journalists that were abused the other day?
madam president, the eu is not very good at haggling at the turkish bazaar. they seemingly agreed to eur 6 billion, but turkey asked for eur 20 billion. what is the top limit you are prepared to do with taxpayers’ money? then mr tusk got on the plane, after agreeing a roadmap, minutes later the newspaper zaman was shut down and the riot police moved in. on sunday, mrs merkel was trying to appease. the same weekend saw the alternative für deutschland see election success. elections are an indication of how the people feel. she is not listening to her people. have you asked the european peoples whether they are prepared to accept visa liberalisation for 75 million turks? i thought not. has david cameron asked the british people whether they accept an extra gbp 500 million bill on top of the 12 billion we already pay in foreign aid, and an extra billion to the eu in the coming year? i thought not too. so what have you gained from haggling at the turkish bizarre? cheap tat at price you should not have paid. we all know that feeling of being taken for a fool, and that is why the british will brexit.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, let me begin by making very clear the position of the socialist group throughout these negotiations. we are, of course, in favour of an improved and better system for legislators to know the impact of what they are doing and the potential costs that they may place on others. that is essential. but, we have always said that this must be a comprehensive assessment. it is not just about cutting costs to small and medium-sized enterprises, important as that is. it is also about the costs and burdens of other kinds. not just of legislating, but potentially of the cost of not legislating, costs on the consumer, costs on public health and therefore on public budgets, costs to the environment, costs to the way our competition policies work. all this must be taken into account. impact assessment must be comprehensive; a real cost-benefit analysis, in other words. we must also bear in mind that we are talking about legislating at the european level. now, when we get it right, when we bring in common rules for our common market we are replacing 28 divergent and contradictory sets of national rules. in other words we are simplifying things for businesses, we are cutting red tape. that must be part of the occasion. and our third concern was that the procedure for impact assessments must, of course, be advisory. there is no right of veto for an appointed official in a legislative procedure. as elected representatives we must have the final say. imagine if, 30 years ago, since this is international women’s day, an impact assessment had said: ‘oh, equal pay for equal work, that will cost businesses, that will cost the exchequer, no we had better not do that.’ of course, we would have overridden that advice and taken the political decision to legislate anyway. since the agreement meets our concerns in these respects my group will fully support it. we also support the other things in it – on programming, transparency, impact assessments – very good. we look forward to approving it and to working for the further implementation of this important agreement.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i welcome this agreement as a step in the right direction; but like the commissioner, i wish it had been more ambitious. reform in the european union must be an ongoing process and it cannot stop with this interinstitutional agreement. cutting administrative burdens, cutting red tape, especially for small businesses, is absolutely vital for our competitiveness in the global economy. my group established three key priorities for the iia: the sme and competitiveness tests, burden reduction targets and the independence of the regulatory scrutiny board. on the last priority, our report sees the establishment of the scrutiny board as a welcome first step in achieving the independence thereof. on the first two, i am very pleased that the iia reflects the text of the council conclusions from february, specifically the burden reduction target. this was a key part of my prime minister's negotiations. simplifying regulation and setting targets for cutting red tape will be good for the whole eu, and that is just what he made clear: we should make things better for the whole of europe, not just the uk. so there are some important things in this agreement, including impact assessments on substantive amendments, sunset and review clauses and a strong commitment to regulatory simplification. i am particularly pleased to see the commitment to undertake an annual burden survey to review the efforts to simplify legislation, to avoid overregulation and to look at the stock of existing eu law. as someone who believes that britain will be better off in a reformed eu, i see reform as vital and i see this agreement as another step in the right direction, in a continuing journey of reform.
madam president, the european union controls fishing, it controls farming, it controls trade, it has legal supremacy, it has a foreign minister and a foreign service, it wants a police force, it gives the uk a complete and open border, it wants an eu army, it will not give up on its failing currency, it wants more tax powers and its economy is crumbling. i will give the eu some free advice. if you want better lawmaking, stop. all of these powers i mentioned belong with sovereign democratic nation states. they do not belong in this place and the sooner the united kingdom is free and taking back control of these powers outside of this union, the better.
madam president, increasing competitiveness is key to delivering stronger economies, increasing prosperity and boosting jobs and growth. we need to rewind the red tape, remove the bureaucracy and reduce the costs faced by businesses and public services when they try to comply with european law. this new agreement, which will govern how the parliament, the 28 countries of europe, and the eu commission work together on better regulation will help – but we can go further. last month, european leaders and the commission promised a sector-by-sector, year-by-year approach to eliminate the unnecessary costs faced by businesses and passed on to consumers. our economies cannot afford for this to be an empty promise. commissioner, member states, parliament: let us work together to deliver on those promises.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, we have just been speaking about better law-making in this parliament. i have to say that this is not a good example. it is the opposite of better law-making. i think it is a really bad idea to reopen this file while we are still waiting for the implementation of the enforcement directive in the member states. i know that this is a targeted revision but it is still not something i welcome. with regard to the detail, the principle of remuneration for the protection of workers is very much wider than the original directive, which refers to pay. this is likely to have an adverse impact on smaller businesses, on our smes, and while the proposal is not directly referring to equal pay for equal work in the same place, i suspect that this is an attempt by the commission to push ahead with that ambition. we must be very careful that we do not create another law with unintended consequences. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question)
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, my thanks to the commissioner for the presentation. i think we all understand the need to ensure that workers are well protected wherever they are from and wherever they are working and that they are not exploited and that their companies operate within the law. we want to ensure that posting is not used as a mechanism to deliberately exert downward pressure on wages and standards. we are aware that there is concern around posted workers in a number of areas and sectors and we recognise that the implementation directive has yet to be transposed in all member states and many of us have a concern that a lot of member states do not actually have adequate resources in terms of labour inspection for that to be fully effective. so we were asked to look at whether the proposals answer the concerns. i think some of us have yet to be convinced. i think we want to know whether we can have more than the limited nature of collective agreements that are, i admit, contained here – they are in line with the ecj, but could we go further? should we not be looking at including sectoral and company agreements, and if they are not in here, why not? in terms of remuneration packages it appears better than simply covering pay, especially when we see so many states with minimum wages rather than living wages, but while equal pay in the same place sounds like a good idea i think for some people we ought to consider that a drop in pay may not be so attractive for all workers. i think we need to look at this in the full range to make sure that we are really addressing the concerns we have.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the posting of workers directive allows companies to ship in foreign workers to another country where there are still unemployed people desperate to find jobs. people will remember the lindsey oil refinery strikes in 2009, which were a direct result of this legislation, and it is this relentless drive towards a single state, with no regard for national borders or standards of living, that angers people in the united kingdom. workers brought in on a temporary basis do not have rent or mortgages to pay, they are often housed and looked after by the company. my constituents do not have that luxury – working or not, they still have bills that need paying, and that is the fundamental problem of this directive and the eu’s freedom of movement. it is a race to the bottom in terms of wages and standards of living. big business gets away with paying the minimum wage and we end up having a wave of economic migration that drives down wages. it is becoming ever clearer that the european union is out for big business. its policies have driven down wages and that will be its downfall. on 23 june, every worker who has been undercut, every worker who has lost their job, every worker who has lost out through open-door immigration, they will have their say. the eu is about the few, but it is the many that will set britain free.
mr president, i was going to start by explaining to our ukip colleague what this is about: that the whole point is that it is about preventing the freedom of movement from being abused to undercut terms and conditions in local markets. it does not have to be like that and we can prevent it being like that. i was going to explain that to him, but of course he is not here because he has done his 60 seconds for youtube and then buggered off to the bar, as they always do. but while i have got 30 seconds left, let me just congratulate the commissioner on actually listening and actually making a difference. lots of colleagues have talked about how much work remains to be done on this. universal collective bargaining is no use to us at all in the uk because we do not use that kind of system; we need sectoral- and company—level collective bargaining. 24 months is no use; we need 6 months. but on the principle of having listened and come back with a different proposal, i thank the commissioner.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i must admit that when we began to hear about the social triple—a some of us began to think: at last, here is something a bit more aspirational on social europe. i really hope that we are also going to draw on the work that we have done in the past on issues beyond gdp, because i think that picks up on some of the points that were made about quite how we are really looking at this. as others have said, we certainly feel that social europe has been very much under attack over the last few years. this parliament has been extremely clear on that, as you will remember, and we recognise that if you cut too much you actually kill the plant that you were trying to grow. so, in terms of the social pillar, i, like you, really hope that there will be many, many responses to that consultation, not least from those experiencing poverty. i hope that part of the concentration in this is going to be about how we tackle growing inequalities, because they are there within our labour market, which we see hollowing out. they are there in terms of job opportunities, and we certainly do face a number of challenges. i would hope that all member states will engage constructively in this, but i am british so i do not take that for granted. i think we are looking, however, at an issue of enforcement. when we are looking at future legislation, as others have said, we are looking at a core europe and the ‘other’ europe as well. so if we are looking at the extension of the equalities directive, the carer’s leave directive, these sorts of things, i think we are faced with an issue here, if we really are looking at a one-speed europe.
madam president, the commission’s press release on the european social pillar originally described it as a reference document of a legal nature expressing key principles of the eu – but it is not going to apply in nine of the 28 member states. that seems a bit odd: big important principles, but not going to apply to hundreds of millions of citizens. i have to say to the commissioner: it is lucky that you and president juncker were not writing exodus and deuteronomy otherwise we might have had ‘thou shalt not kill, but you can in the united kingdom’ and ‘thou shalt not steal, although the swedes will have to opt into this’ and ‘thou shalt not commit adultery, but it is fine in poland or, rather, optional in poland’. surely if this is important, then it should apply to everybody. or if it is just a bit of blarney, a bit of soft soap to keep socialists happy while nothing actually changes, then in that case, let us not, any of us, bother wasting our time on it. if it is a real thing, by the way, then, at some point in the document, it should have made mention of quality jobs. there are 80 000 people in my constituency in the west midlands on zero-hour contracts and similar exploitation. if this document means something then it should apply to us and it should talk about that.
madam president, i urge the commissioner to look out for two upcoming reports that will come to the floor of this house which are both very relevant: meeting anti-poverty targets in the light of household costs, for which i co-authored an opinion, and poverty from a woman’s perspective. we need strong impetus to meet these anti-poverty targets and that includes having serious social focus for the european semester with a strong gender perspective, and i say this on the occasion of international women’s day. women are disproportionately at risk of poverty and social exclusion and when we tackle the poverty that vulnerable women experience we lift up the rest with them. the european union has the potential to build a socially just and truly equal europe, but we need to tackle gender inequalities if we are to make that vision a reality.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i also would like to add my thanks to the rapporteur on this directive for keeping a very clear and strong line in the negotiations. i think we have got something where the derogations are limited very much case by case and we have reduced some of the flexibility that the council sought far too often. as people have said, it is another important part of the procedural rights package and here, i think, we have generally got an upward convergence. as so often, the toughest part has been around the actual access to a lawyer – surely a key part of justice –and my group still has a lingering concern about the proportionality test in article 6(6). we are concerned as to how that is actually going to be implemented in national law, in transposition and in practice. however, overall we believe this directive is a good legislative instrument which will improve the rights of children throughout the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, the united kingdom will not adopt this proposed legislation for two reasons. one, we have an opt-out and two, because we already have such safeguards under our own law. it is shocking that some member states lack basic safeguards for children under their own legal systems. for example, the right to be present at one’s own trial, the right to legal representation, the right of children held in custody to be kept separately from adults, and the right to be visited by a parent or guardian. the question that springs to mind is how could the legal systems of member states lacking such basic protections be considered equal to the legal systems that do? and of course they are, under the eu’s ideological doctrine of mutual recognition that says all member states’ legal systems are equal. this is palpably not true but it is good to see the eu adopting some of the tried and tested principles of the english legal system.
madam president, i welcome the report drafted by my colleague, caterina chinnici, with whom i co-founded the parliamentary children’s rights intergroup. every citizen suspected of a crime must be able to understand and follow criminal proceedings and to exercise their right to a fair trial. all citizens must have their rights upheld in the course of the criminal process, but children are particularly vulnerable and we must address their specific situation. so i am happy to see that the report reaffirms that the child’s best interests must always be a primary consideration. as a member of the committee on culture and education, i want to underline the role of prevention, as well as social reintegration of children suspected or convicted of criminal offences. therefore, more consideration must be given to the power of informal learning, volunteering, sports and cultural participation for social inclusion and reintegration of children and young people who have gone through the criminal justice system. this applies especially to disadvantaged young people who may have failed in the compulsory education system.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the rapporteur correctly identifies the problems facing europe, but i am concerned that correct diagnosis does not always lead to correct treatment. i make three points. first, it is important that the eu operate within the budget which was agreed within the mff and therefore, despite the immediate and pressing nature of many of the problems facing the union, they should not be used as a reason to call for a bigger budget. rather, the commissioner is absolutely right to introduce performance-based budgeting, and would be right to pursue both value for money and european added value. secondly, i understand and i do share the rapporteur’s concerns for the levels of youth unemployment. i fully accept that in times of crisis politicians will want to be seen to be responding. after all, who would not wish to see vastly improved employment prospects for young people? but a word of caution: experience has taught us that youth unemployment schemes have generally been strong on intent but disappointing in delivery. the one thing that would help young unemployed people more than anything else is a strong, vibrant and expanding economy. that brings me to my third point. i do understand that attention is likely to be focused on the immediate crises in agriculture, in security and the refugees. but i do urge colleagues not to lose sight of the fact that it is competitiveness, jobs and growth that is, and must remain, the number one priority for this budget.
madam president, this report talks a lot about how to get around the rules effectively; how to increase the budget without actually breaking the rules and ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. but what i want to focus on today is the text in the report which accuses the member states of ‘duplicitous behaviour’ when they do not want to give the european union more money. i am shocked. it is not a very nice thing to accuse the united kingdom of, and david cameron, as we all know, leads its government – the same david cameron, of course, who gave us a cast-iron guarantee that if he became pm, he would not let matters rest there about the lisbon treaty. well he did let matters rest there, but i am sure that was not really his fault, right? this is the downing street that recently promised us that they had nothing to do with john longwood’s sacking as the head of the british chamber of commerce, when he backed brexit. i am sure that phone call from an aide hours before the sacking was 100% coincidence. right? the prime minister, who promised us he would have net migration down to the tens of thousands a year if he was elected. well, okay, i cannot excuse that one at all. so we have this report in front of us which calls for finding ways to spend more taxpayers’ money in 2017. a report which calls for more spending in many areas and the one place where the report actually calls for cuts – i suppose the one area where it does that is to actually ask for more funding to be able to implement the cut. so whilst we are asking for more taxpayers’ money for 2017, i think this report had better think about who it actually calls ‘duplicitous’; if it is referring to cameron then, who knows, it might actually be right for once.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, last week donald tusk gave a very clear message to potential irregular migrants when he said: ‘do not come to europe, do not believe smugglers’. finally, a european leader was trying to break the link between getting on a boat and bypassing legal migration channels, because stemming the flow of irregular migrants will allow our countries to focus on helping the refugees who need and deserve our help directly from the conflict zones. but let us be clear: our enemies are not the refugees who are fleeing from war, conflict and persecution. our enemies are not the irregular migrants who come from safer countries and who may use the conflict to understandably seek a better life in our countries. our enemies are the people traffickers who prey on innocent and desperate people, who care little for the lives of their human cargo and who deserve to be taken out of action. so, on monday, eu leaders agreed the outline of an agreement with the turkish government and i hoped, like gianni, to be standing here today welcoming a deal, but instead i have to admit i have a number of reservations and questions. firstly the process: yet again we see one or two leaders going off to negotiate with turkey on behalf of the eu without really consulting the other countries. secondly, i struggle to see how much of this is either legal or practical. even in desperate times, should we just tear up our own rules and international conventions? thirdly, i am very concerned that we are replacing one series of pressures from economic migration with another by granting turkey visa liberalisation in a matter of weeks, without thinking through the implications. fourthly, how will the eur 6 billion be delivered? will it be tied to clear targets that must be met? or otherwise would we not be better off and safer spending that vast sum of money here on reception, processing and returns? turkey itself is testing the eu. those of us who believe in freedom of the press should be concerned about the actions of the turkish government against the zaman newspaper. but if we are to work with turkey on migration as friends then, as friends, we should also be honest with them about whether eu membership is realistic, and with our concerns over freedoms in their country. whatever our views, we must all realise that we will not begin to control this crisis until we all realise there is no one silver bullet to solve this crisis. we made that mistake last year with the relocation scheme. let us not make that same mistake again. while we may not be able to stop the flows altogether, we can show that our borders are not a free-for-all. in the short term, we can work on finalising readmission agreements and speeding up returns; we can fingerprint upon arrival and find resources to speed up the processing of applications; we can put nato ships in the aegean to target the traffickers. in the long run, we can talk about reform of dublin, but should we really be reinventing dublin in the midst of a crisis? or should we find a way of making a system we have work effectively and helping those facing the greatest pressures? dublin has failed because countries stopped implementing it. yes, greece does have a significant humanitarian crisis, but eu politicians would be making a huge mistake to try to launch a hostile takeover of greece under article 78 of the treaty, as i see some politicians are proposing. guy, i see you looking at me. i imagine you are going to attack me again this week. the number of times you mention mr kamall in your speeches really is flattering. i just hope for your partner’s sake you do not mention my name in your sleep. but on an issue as important as this, i ask you and others here today not to seek to score cheap political points but to agree how all of us can work together to find effective answers – not undeliverable silver bullets, not initiatives designed purely to grab the headlines, but practical solutions to save lives and help refugees. because we owe it to our citizens and the refugees that desperately need our help, to stem the flow of those who are not refugees, to help frontline states take responsibility and to provide a refuge for those genuinely fleeing for their lives. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– thank you for choosing me, as i appreciate that everyone is keen to talk to mr kamall. the last time we spoke, mr kamall, i had the honour of asking you a question about turkey and you contradicted the position that your leader, the prime minister, has held for many years about turkish membership of the eu. i wonder if now you would like to join with me in condemning your leader’s, the prime minister’s, part in a very shoddy deal that is being done with turkey, the payment of protection money – basically on his knees with the rest of the eu begging turkey to solve the problems we have got. and, while we are at it, give us a critique of his other failed re-negotiations – any that might come to mind?
blue-card answer.– mr etheridge, you are either naive or a real optimist if you expect me to stand here and criticise the leader of my party – the prime minister of my country. i would say wake up or get some coffee before you come into the chamber. what i would say to you is that you also criticised him over the negotiation. no prime minister has done more to negotiate a different relationship with the eu than this current prime minister, and for that you should give him credit.
mr president, we are embarked upon a course of almost unbelievable stupidity. the historic error made by chancellor merkel last year by saying all can come has led directly to this mess and now we are being blackmailed by turkey. first they came for eur 3 billion in a promise to reduce the numbers coming into greece and the rest of europe and, of course, when the numbers increased many-fold they came back for another eur 3 billion. and they will keep on coming back for more and more and more, as the british poet rudyard kipling observed of the danish incursions into england. that was called paying the danegeld, but we proved again and again that if once you have paid him the danegeld you will never get rid of a dane. and now they have got us over a barrel, this new deal where for every one illegal migrant we send back, if our human rights laws allow it, they will send us another one from syria. so the argument is that we paid them a fortune not to reduce numbers, and yet we have given in. and we have said yes to visa-free access for 75 million turks from june of this year. in theory, they can stay for 90 days. in practice, many will disappear or, of course, claim family reunion. the numbers will go sharply up. and in return for all of this, we are now going to fast-track turkey as a full member of the european union. my goodness me, i wish that david cameron was as good at negotiations as the turks are! so we are going to go into political union with a country that has got borders with iraq, iran and syria. we are going to go into political union with a country that is poorer than anybody else in the european union and give free movement to 75 million people and join up with a government that is increasingly islamist and authoritarian. the turkish prime minister said this week that turkish membership will be a turning point. too right! the british prime minister has long supported turkey being a member of this union. in fact he has fought hard over 10 years for them to join. he does not bat an eyelid at the extra gbp 500 million we will stump up to help fund this crisis. well this referendum in britain is all about what is the safest option, and given that the boss of europol says there are already 3 000 to 5 000 islamist terrorists that have come into europe using the migrant routes, it is pretty clear to me that a vote to remain is a vote for turkey. a vote to remain is a vote for massively increased immigration into britain and a vote to remain is a vote that makes britain more vulnerable to terrorism. safer to vote to leave and take back control of our borders.
mr president, later this month, the council of ministers will reconvene and return to the nitty-gritty of tackling the mess created by the eu project’s failed approach to migration and competitiveness. despite mr weber’s valiant attempts to present this week’s deal in our relationship with turkey as one of partnership and not dependency, the reality is that migration policy is chaotic, expensive and giving into the bullying of turkey in terms of visa liberalisation and accession. meanwhile, in the united kingdom, the prime minister continues to tour the country to sell that other failed deal. thankfully, for millions of people across the united kingdom, there is hope. we believe that the extent of our ambitions must be about more than making the best of a bad deal. there is another way. to paraphrase the now-former director of the british chamber of commerce: ‘there can be a brighter future, one outside the european union’.
blue-card question.– would you not agree with me that europe’s borders are obviously completely porous? chancellor merkel invites numerous people from all over the world to come to europe and then offloads the problem onto the rest of us. the agreement with turkey on migration is ludicrous and a joke. it is like bailing out a boat with a sieve. all we are doing is swapping one set of immigrants for another, would you not agree?
mr president, we really must be honest with each other. this is a crisis and we cannot afford to create yet another failure. it was relocation last year and a misjudged turkey agreement this year. as mr kamall has said, friends need to be honest with each other. they do not just tell you what you want to hear. my fear is another miracle solution which fails will overshadow all the other important and sensible actions which are being taken. but a eur 6 billion mistake is a big mistake. stop looking for silver bullets because some time you might end up with a nuclear bomb. direct resettlement, sticking to the rules, border controls and faster processing are what we need. it is not headline-making but it is necessary in the present crisis. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer.– i am not sure whether that is the point. i think that this whole project is one which is being approached with great haste and not with enough thought. i think we need to be very calm and collected, despite the crisis, and we need to concentrate on the proposals that the commission and, indeed, national governments have already made to try and alleviate the situation in other ways.
mr president, i would say to the minister: another week, another summit, and yet we are no closer to solving the refugee crisis. a long-term strategy is way overdue. instead of addressing the problems that greece and other frontline states are facing with the inflows, we have outsourced the problem to turkey. my real concern is the price we are paying not in euros, but in compromising our values for the sake of political expediency. what is worse is that we are turning a blind eye to the near-total crackdown on freedom of expression and the media by the turkish authorities; and we cannot ignore the fact that the turkish army is engaging in collective punishment of the local population in south-east turkey. a ceasefire between the pkk and the army needs to be put in place immediately. offering visa-free travel and speeding up accession negotiations as bargaining chips will do irreparable damage to our credibility and clout on the world stage – the credibility that has allowed the eu to make huge strides in spreading stability and rule of law in our neighbourhood.
in writing. – ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. – ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report, which is a codification dossier. simply put, codification means that they unify fragmented and updated modifications into one instrument, enhancing legal clarity. no substantial changes were made to the codified text. therefore, and specifically because it enhances legal clarity, we voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this was an attempt to rehash existing laws. i voted against this measure because it was a proposal for further legislation. i do not believe that the european parliament should be making any law that would be applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. – ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. – ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as the proposal contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the consultative working party was able to conclude, without dissent, that this proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this codification of the directive relating to a reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels, as it contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any changes in their substance, and the subject of the directive contributes to our need to have better air quality and reduce pollution.
in writing. ‒ it has been concluded that this is a straightforward codification of existing text, without any change to the substance, and therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. – ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. – ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report which is a codification dossier. simply put, codification means that they unify fragmented and updated modifications into one instrument, enhancing legal clarity. no substantial changes were made to the codified text. therefore, and specifically because it enhances legal clarity, we voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this is a consolidation of regulations into a proposed codified regulation that claims to serve the purpose of preventing tiered priced medical products from being import to the eu. i voted against this measure because it was more legislation that the uk would have to adapt. i believe that the uk should be making its own rules on the tiered pricing of medical products.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom
in writing. – ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable in wales and the rest of the united kingdom
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom
in writing. – ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as the proposal contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that an examination of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003 to avoid trade diversion into the european union of certain key medicines resulted in the consultative working party’s concluding, without dissent, that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this measure because this was a proposal for legislation. ukip is opposed in principle to the european parliament making any law which is applicable to the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ this text is a straightforward codification and i see no reason to not vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ it has been concluded that this is a straightforward codification of existing text, without any change to the substance, and therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. – treaties and agreements entered into by the eu could just as easily be entered into by member states directly, ukip opposes the authority of the eu to act in its own legal capacity in this fashion, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – treaties and agreements entered into by the eu could just as easily be entered into by member states directly, ukip opposes the authority of the eu to act in its own legal capacity in this fashion, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – this file concerns an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, whereby it seeks to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion. the automatic exchange of financial information is crucial to combating tax evasion and exposing any illicit financing. therefore, we voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this is an agreement between andorra and the european union. i oppose closer economic, political and monetary unions between the eu and member states. i believe that such agreements would be better made with member states directly. i voted against this agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information.
in writing. ‒ treaties and agreements entered into by the eu could just as easily be entered into by member states directly, ukip opposes the authority of the eu to act in its own legal capacity in this fashion, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ treaties and agreements entered into by the eu could just as easily be entered into by member states directly, ukip opposes the authority of the eu to act in its own legal capacity in this fashion, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – treaties and agreements entered into by the eu could just as easily be entered into by member states directly, ukip opposes the authority of the eu to act in its own legal capacity in this fashion, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ treaties and agreements entered into by the eu could just as easily be entered into by member states directly. ukip opposes the authority of the eu to act in its own legal capacity in this fashion; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. in recent times we have heard instances of corporate tax evasion and ‘sweetheart’ tax deals so it is welcome to hear of this arrangement between the eu and andorra. the automatic sharing of information as of 2018 will help in the global fight against aggressive tax planning. in the uk in 2013/2014 the tax gap (total of tax debt, avoidance and corporate evasion) was gbp 119.4 billion. we need a european response to a pan-european problem, including through agreements like this proposal. in order to take effective action in this area the uk must remain a member of the eu.
in writing. ‒ treaties and agreements entered into by the eu could just as easily be entered into by member states directly. ukip opposes the authority of the eu to act in its own legal capacity in this fashion; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – treaties and agreements entered into by the eu could just as easily be entered into by member states directly. ukip opposes the authority of the eu to act in its own legal capacity in this fashion; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the agreement between the eu and andorra because it is vital, in the global fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, that we work with countries like andorra in order to make sure that no one can dodge taxes simply by hiding their money overseas.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal as the agreement represents an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion and upgrades the 2004 agreement that ensured that andorra applied measures equivalent to those in an eu directive on the taxation of savings income.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the agreement between the eu and andorra because it is vital, in the global fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, that we work with countries like andorra in order to make sure that no one can dodge taxes simply by hiding their money overseas.
in writing. ‒ treaties and agreements entered into by the eu could just as easily be entered into by member states directly. ukip opposes the authority of the eu to act in its own legal capacity in this fashion; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the step towards transparency that the agreement we voted on brings. andorra is effectively in the middle of the eu and cooperation with it is important in many areas, including the exchange of information on financial accounts discussed here. i therefore support the motion.
in writing. ‒ treaties and agreements entered into by the eu could just as easily be entered into by member states directly. ukip opposes the authority of the eu to act in its own legal capacity in this fashion; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is in line with the manifest need for greater transparency on matters relating to tax. i voted in favour of approving the agreement because i believe that it is vital that the eu and andorra cooperate in the worldwide fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. working with countries like andorra will make sure that no one can dodge taxes by ‘hiding’ their money overseas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the agreement between the eu and andorra because it is vital, in the global fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, that we work with countries like andorra in order to make sure that no one can dodge taxes simply by hiding their money overseas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the agreement between the eu and andorra because it is vital, in the global fight against tax avoidance and evasion, that we work with countries like andorra in order to make sure that no one can dodge taxes simply by hiding their money overseas. with trillions of dollars in tax evasion and avoidance sent to tax havens around the world, the fight for tax justice is one of the most important avenues for a more equal, equitable and a more democratic world. the eu is one of the only global actors able to tackle the problem, something which member states could not do on their own.
in writing. – we voted against the appointment of a new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) as we have grave concerns with the eiopa. a number of these regulatory bodies were set up after the financial crash, the stated aim being to regulate the financial markets so that another financial crash wouldn’t happen. of course, robust regulation is required but there are critical concerns with these bodies. there is a huge democratic deficit running through these bodies and moreover, a number of legal concerns have been voiced. the bodies have very fragile legal foundations and a number of legal experts have stated that the setting up of such bodies was done outside of the confines of eu treaty law. to explain simply, when an eu body is being set up, you have to first go back to the primary treaties which founded the eu and look at the treaty provisions. if there is no provision in the treaty to set up such an initiative, then it can be declared as ultra vires i.e. being outside of eu law and having no legal foundation. therefore, it was for these reasons that we voted against the appointment of a director as it would inadvertently endorse an undemocratic body.
in writing. ‒ this vote was carried out by secret ballot. in the interest of transparency i would like my constituents to know i voted against this appointment. i do not believe secret ballots should be held in any parliament in the interests of being transparent with the public we serve. i want my constituents to know that i voted against appointing more fat-cats to the commission.
in writing. ‒ i supported the nomination of fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). he has gained considerable experience in working for regulatory bodies in italy and internationally. my hope is that he can build on the successes of eiopa – which include the recent harmonisation of eu insurance regulation (solvency ii). we should be seeking a consistent level of regulation of financial systems across the eu, including coordinated responses to common problems. but we will not be able to help consumers in the uk should we turn our back on the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted to approve the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of the eiopa.
in writing. ‒ i approve of the appointment of fausto parente as the executive director of the eiopa. i believe that he is sufficiently quality to fill this role.
mr president, this report bases its legal status on the eu’s charter of fundamental rights and freedoms – a document that, when it was negotiated, we were assured by the then prime minister of the united kingdom, tony blair, would not apply to the uk. then his europe minister said: well, okay it is there but it does not really mean anything. he said it had all the legal force of a copy of the beano. we were then told again by the current prime minister that opting out of the charter of fundamental rights was a critical part of the recent negotiations. nothing has changed. again we see the way in which there is a one-way agglomeration of powers by the institutions of the european union. britain had thought that the european union was an intergovernmental organisation about trade and commerce and that the council of europe was the human rights organisation, but we now see that the eu has to acquire jurisdiction in every field of policy. that is the bus which we are going on. if we want to stay put, we do not literally remain motionless on that bus – we have to step off it.
mr president, every now and again a sentence, a procedure, a directive comes out in language that most of us would see as reasonable, or indeed would think is acceptable. in these circumstances, today, these procedures about protecting children in criminal proceedings appear reasonable. the united kingdom has opted out of the directive related to this because our procedures in relation to children have a higher standard than those being proposed by the eu. but that is not necessarily the point. the point here for people in the united kingdom, who have to vote in the referendum on june 23, is that they must realise that the eu is introducing procedures on children which differ from ours. tomorrow they will be introducing legislation that is different to ours and, if we vote to remain, we will always be subject to these rules at some stage. this is not about the status quo. this is about the future, and the uk will remain in something that is dark and desperate.
in writing. – this is a legislative report that seeks to create common minimum standards for children in criminal proceedings. the uk has had, for many years, high standards of safeguards in place for children in criminal proceedings. the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive as the current text would cause operational difficulties for the uk. in light of this, ukip meps have voted to abstain on this vote for two reasons. firstly, whilst we are of course not against high standards of safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings, we are principally against the eu interfering in member states’ judicial systems. secondly, as the uk has chosen not to opt into this directive, it should not be the business of british meps to vote on laws that will not affect us.
in writing. – this is a legislative report that seeks to create common minimum standards for children in criminal proceedings. the uk has had, for many years, high standards of safeguards in place for children in criminal proceedings. the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive as the current text would cause operational difficulties for the uk. in light of this, ukip meps have voted to abstain on this vote for two reasons. firstly, whilst we are of course not against high standards of safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings, we are principally against the eu interfering in member states’ judicial systems. secondly, as the uk has chosen not to opt into this directive, it should not be the business of british meps to vote on laws that will not affect us.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report which was concerned with safeguards for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. children require special measures of protection to take account of their particular vulnerability and needs (un crc committee, general comment 10, para 10). this report moved to enhance the rights and protections of children involved in criminal proceedings. approximately 1.09 million children pass through the criminal justice system in europe each year and the procedural safeguards which are afforded to them are often woefully lacking. this report is to be commended for significantly strengthening these legal protections. however, it must be noted that whereas the directive on the right to a lawyer permits suspects or accused persons to waive this right, the original commission proposal prohibited waiver in the case of children. it is disappointing this has been dropped. ensuring that every child gets legal representation would have been an important step forward in ensuring rights are protected.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive.
in writing. ‒ this is a legislative report that seeks to create common minimum standards for children in criminal proceedings. the uk has had, for many years, high standards of safeguards in place for children in criminal proceedings. the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive as the current text would cause operational difficulties for the uk. in light of this, ukip meps have voted to abstain on this vote for two reasons. firstly, whilst we are of course not against high standards of safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings, we are principally against the eu interfering in member states’ judicial systems. secondly, as the uk has chosen not to opt into this directive, it should not be the business of british meps to vote on laws that will not affect us.
in writing. ‒ this is a legislative report that seeks to create common minimum standards for children in criminal proceedings. the uk has had, for many years, high standards of safeguards in place for children in criminal proceedings. the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive as the current text would cause operational difficulties for the uk. in light of this, ukip meps have voted to abstain on this vote for two reasons. firstly, whilst we are of course not against high standards of safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings, we are principally against the eu interfering in member states’ judicial systems. secondly, as the uk has chosen not to opt into this directive, it should not be the business of british meps to vote on laws that will not affect us.
in writing. – this is a legislative report that seeks to create common minimum standards for children in criminal proceedings. the uk has had, for many years, high standards of safeguards in place for children in criminal proceedings. the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive as the current text would cause operational difficulties for the uk. in light of this, ukip meps have voted to abstain on this vote for two reasons. firstly, whilst we are of course not against high standards of safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings, we are principally against the eu interfering in member states’ judicial systems. secondly, as the uk has chosen not to opt into this directive, it should not be the business of british meps to vote on laws that will not affect us.
in writing. ‒ this is a legislative report that seeks to create common minimum standards for children in criminal proceedings. wales and the uk have had, for many years, high standards of safeguards in place for children in criminal proceedings. the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive as the current text would cause operational difficulties for the uk. in light of this, ukip meps have voted to abstain on this vote for two reasons. firstly, whilst we are of course not against high standards of safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings, we are principally against the eu interfering in member states’ judicial systems. secondly, as the uk has chosen not to opt into this directive, it should not be the business of british meps to vote on laws that will not affect us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this package of proposals by the commission because i believe it is key that we adopt minimum standards throughout the eu to better protect the rights of suspects or those accused in criminal proceedings who are children. ensuring that these children are treated with respect, dignity and professionalism is not only a moral duty, it is also vital to facilitating reintegration of these minors in society and giving them a fair shot at a second chance. given the uk will not opt in to this directive, there is no conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law.
in writing. ‒ this is a legislative report that seeks to create common minimum standards for children in criminal proceedings. the uk has had, for many years, high standards of safeguards in place for children in criminal proceedings. the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive as the current text would cause operational difficulties for the uk. in light of this, ukip meps have voted to abstain on this vote for two reasons. firstly, whilst we are of course not against high standards of safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings, we are principally against the eu interfering in member states’ judicial systems. secondly, as the uk has chosen not to opt into this directive, it should not be the business of british meps to vote on laws that will not affect us.
in writing. – this is a legislative report that seeks to create common minimum standards for children in criminal proceedings. the uk has had, for many years, high standards of safeguards in place for children in criminal proceedings. the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive as the current text would cause operational difficulties for the uk. in light of this, ukip meps have voted to abstain on this vote for two reasons. firstly, whilst we are of course not against high standards of safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings, we are principally against the eu interfering in member states’ judicial systems. secondly, as the uk has chosen not to opt into this directive, it should not be the business of british meps to vote on laws that will not affect us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it is part of a package of proposals to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings, which includes one on safeguards for children and another on legal aid. labour meps support the idea of establishing minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as procedural safeguards for children.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal. currently, only six member states (belgium, czech republic, greece, italy, luxembourg and slovakia) have dedicated juvenile prosecution services, and nine member states do not even have juvenile courts. special training for judges and lawyers who come into contact with children in their work is compulsory in only 12 member states. in some member states, there is no legal obligation for children to be assisted by a lawyer; in others, it is available only in the courts, but not in police stations; in others still, the decision is up to the relevant court. as a result, a substantial number of children in the eu do not enjoy the basic right to be assisted by a lawyer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is part of a package of proposals to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings, which includes one on safeguards for children, and another on legal aid. labour meps support the idea of establishing minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as procedural safeguards for children. along with ireland and denmark, the uk will not opt into this directive so there is no conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law.
in writing. ‒ this is a legislative report that seeks to create common minimum standards for children in criminal proceedings. the uk has had, for many years, high standards of safeguards in place for children in criminal proceedings. the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive as the current text would cause operational difficulties for the uk. in light of this, ukip meps have voted to abstain on this vote for two reasons. firstly, whilst we are of course not against high standards of safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings, we are principally against the eu interfering in member states’ judicial systems. secondly, as the uk has chosen not to opt into this directive, it should not be the business of british meps to vote on laws that will not affect us.
in writing. ‒ this is a legislative report that seeks to create common minimum standards for children in criminal proceedings. the uk has had, for many years, high standards of safeguards in place for children in criminal proceedings. the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive as the current text would cause operational difficulties for the uk. in light of this, ukip meps have voted to abstain on this vote for two reasons. firstly, whilst we are of course not against high standards of safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings, we are principally against the eu interfering in member states’ judicial systems. secondly, as the uk has chosen not to opt into this directive, it should not be the business of british meps to vote on laws that will not affect us.
in writing. ‒ this is a legislative report that seeks to create common minimum standards for children in criminal proceedings. the uk has had, for many years, high standards of safeguards in place for children in criminal proceedings. the uk government has chosen not to opt into this directive as the current text would cause operational difficulties for the uk. in light of this, ukip meps have voted to abstain on this vote for two reasons. firstly, whilst we are of course not against high standards of safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings, we are principally against the eu interfering in member states’ judicial systems. secondly, as the uk has chosen not to opt into this directive, it should not be the business of british meps to vote on laws that will not affect us.
in writing. ‒ this directive is part of a package of proposals to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings, which includes one on safeguards for children, and another on legal aid. labour meps support the idea of establishing minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as procedural safeguards for children. along with ireland and denmark, the uk will not opt into this directive so there is no conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law.
in writing. ‒ i am delighted this important report has been adopted with such an overwhelming majority. this directive is part of a package of proposals to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings, which includes one on safeguards for children, and another on legal aid. it is important to establish minimum standards across the eu in areas as fundamental as procedural safeguards for children. i am happy that this report reaffirms that the child’s best interests must always be a primary consideration. the field of juvenile justice must be integrated into the broader framework of children’s rights seen as human rights, also encompassing issues related to children’s poverty, their access to care and services, parenting and family, formal, non-formal and informal education, education to citizenship and their participation in societies. that is precisely the kind of approach advocated in the written declaration on ‘investing in children’ that this house adopted last year, which, i would like to remind my colleagues, is the declaration signed by the highest number of meps since 2011.
mr president, 800 years ago on a reedy stretch of riverbank in my constituency on the thames, a bargain was struck between a recalcitrant king and some barons that led to the foundation of what was within 50 years to become a parliament meeting at westminster. the primary function of that parliament, right from the beginning, was not representation, but holding the government to account, especially on financial questions. everything else was a side-line – the debates, the constituency representation. the core role of a parliamentarian was to keep the executive in check. now look at the difference between all our national parliaments when it comes to these budgetary questions and the attitude of this parliament in this report. we as meps in the majority are constantly asking for more money, for more european resources, for increases in budgets. it is precisely the opposite of what national assemblies were set up to do. we keep hearing about all the uncertainties that will follow the british vote on whether to leave the eu. well here is one absolute certainty: the budget is never going to get any smaller.
mr president, yesterday in the united kingdom parliament, mark carney, the governor of the bank of england, said that there are risks to the united kingdom leaving the eu. he ignored two other factors. one, the risk of staying in the eu, and two, the risks also of having no change within the eu. within this budget report today which sets out the guidelines for the 2017 budget was a statement that talked of duplicitous states trying to prevent the eu from getting more money. people in the united kingdom must understand that if they vote to remain they are going to vote for an organisation run by civil servants whose key principle is to increase the budget of the eu without their own representation. there was a state that moved away from the united kingdom because it said very clearly there should be representation for any taxation. well here we are going to have increases of budgets without parliamentarians being able to do anything about it.
in writing. – this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, we would vote against it on principle anyway. but the report is also highly critical, stating that ‘the union budget has in recent years been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour’. we do not believe that the union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. – this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, we would vote against it on principle anyway. but the report is also highly critical, stating that ‘the union budget has in recent years been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour’. we do not believe that the union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. – while there were some positive aspects to the report, there were a number of provisions which we had particular concerns with, notably own resources. whilst it is recognised that ireland does contribute to the eu budget through the traditional own resources (customs duties) and there is an obligation to do so, this nonetheless does not negate our concerns with how the eu budget expenditure is financed by member states and moreover how the eu budget is allocated each year. whilst our party considers it necessary to reform the system of financing the mff, it considers it imperative that the revision of the forecast of traditional own resources and the budgetary [revenue] of gni balances and vat remains free from political interference and based solely on the latest economic data, thereby providing a greater degree of certainty for both member states and the commission alike in forward planning. in addition, we have a number of concerns with the proposed financial transaction tax, environmental tax, etc. which we believe is intended to strip a member state of their financial competencies, whilst also being mindful of their positive intentions and of how, if used constructively, they could be very progressive.
in writing. ‒ this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, i would vote against the report on principle anyway. however the report is also highly critical stating that “the union budget has been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour”. we do not believe that the european union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, we would vote against it on principle anyway. but the report is also highly critical, stating that ‘the union budget has in recent years been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour’. we do not believe that the union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, we would vote against it on principle anyway. but the report is also highly critical, stating that ‘the union budget has in recent years been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour’. we do not believe that the union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. – this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, we would vote against it on principle anyway. but the report is also highly critical, stating that ‘the union budget has in recent years been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour’. we do not believe that the union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against these guidelines as they demand an increase in the size of the eu budget. i believe that the funds already allocated in the 2014-2020 period are sufficient. should additional financial support for new priorities be needed, then the eu should reallocate funds from existing programmes.
in writing. ‒ this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, we would vote against it on principle anyway. but the report is also highly critical, stating that ‘the union budget has in recent years been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour’. we do not believe that the union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against calls to increase the eu budget. the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the eu budget is adequate, if properly directed, to deal with the main challenges europe is facing. when looking at reform of the mff, the priority should be looking at redistribution of the available budget between different areas. more needs to be done within current budget ceilings, and spending must be prioritised and redirected towards boosting sustainable growth and employment, and dealing with the refugee crisis. there are many examples of money well spent in the eu budget – the european research council, for example, helps us to maintain our position as a world leader in science in research. the european fund for strategic investments also holds great promise and is being used in the uk to boost investment in key energy infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, we would vote against it on principle anyway. but the report is also highly critical, stating that ‘the union budget has in recent years been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour’. we do not believe that the union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. – this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, we would vote against it on principle anyway. but the report is also highly critical, stating that ‘the union budget has in recent years been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour’. we do not believe that the union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against calls by many other meps to increase the eu budget. labour meps have argued and continue to argue that more needs to be done within current budget ceilings, and that spending must be prioritised and redirected towards boosting sustainable growth and employment, and dealing with the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal as my national delegation does not believe an increase in the eu budget can be justified in the present circumstances.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted today against calls by many other meps to increase the eu budget. labour meps believe the multi-annual financial framework (mff) for the eu budget is adequate, if properly directed, to deal with the main challenges europe is facing. labour meps believe that when looking at reform of the mff, the priority should be looking at redistribution of the available budget between different areas. labour meps have argued and continue to argue that more needs to be done within current budget ceilings, and that spending must be prioritised and redirected towards boosting sustainable growth and employment, and dealing with the refugee crisis. there are many examples of money well spent in the eu budget – the european research council, for example, helps us to maintain our position as a world leader in science in research. the european fund for strategic investments also holds great promise and is being used in the uk to boost investment in key energy infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, we would vote against it on principle anyway. but the report is also highly critical, stating that ‘the union budget has in recent years been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour’. we do not believe that the union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. ‒ while i agree with a number of the budget proposals, i cannot support the proposal as a whole. the proposal contains provisions calling for countries that the authors believe do not show sufficient solidarity with refugees to be subject to budgetary penalties. this is a course of action that is completely unacceptable. some countries have different views on how to deal with the refugee crisis, and the rest of the eu cannot punish them for it. such proposals only disintegrate the unity of the eu. that's why i'm rejecting them.
in writing. ‒ this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, we would vote against it on principle anyway. but the report is also highly critical, stating that ‘the union budget has in recent years been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour’. we do not believe that the union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report is all about the preparations for the 2017 eu budget. since there is no fundamental prospect of cutting the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money sent to brussels, we would vote against it on principle anyway. but the report is also highly critical, stating that ‘the union budget has in recent years been a collateral victim of member states’ duplicitous behaviour’. we do not believe that the union should lecture member states when the member states are already providing too much finance to the european union.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted against calls of other meps to increase the eu budget; i believe, like my labour colleagues, that the mff – the multi-annual financial framework – for the eu is sufficient and adequate and that if it is properly managed then it has the capability to deal with the main challenges europe faces. i believe that, when looking at the reform of the mff, the main thing that we should be looking at is the redistributive nature of the available budget between different areas. we – labour meps – have continually argued that more needs to be done and can be done within the current budget ceilings and that spending must be prioritised and redirected towards boosting sustainable growth and employment and dealing with the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against an increase in the european budget. i feel that it is important that we ensure that the budget is good value for money across the board. however, it is important to acknowledge the importance of investment from the eu into my constituency of wales. wales receives a net gain of gbp 838 million directly from the eu. investment from the eu has seen university campuses either built from scratch or expanded at swansea, cardiff, aberystwyth and bangor. it also been used to improve lives across wales, through programmes like project y that is focused on helping young people at risk of falling out of education, and bridges to work, designed to help people into employment. therefore the budget as a whole represents a vital resource for wales and other regions like it, across the european union; however it needs to be managed carefully and spent on priorities like the projects mentioned.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the multi-annual financial framework for the eu budget is adequate, if properly directed, to face the main challenges europe is facing. i believe that when looking at reform of the mff the priority should be redistribution between headings. more needs to be done within current ceilings and spending needs to be clearly prioritised towards boosting sustainable growth and employment, as well as dealing with the refugee crisis.
mr president, we are talking about better laws and better regulation, and who would discount the idea that we need better laws? the eu certainly does need better laws because, after all, 40 years of eu regulation is leading gdp levels to the lowest they have ever been. eu laws have led to lower productivity, unemployment across the continent at an average of 13% and youth unemployment at an average of over 30%. this is a continent that is dying because of eu laws. but when you look at eu laws, you also have to look at how those eu laws are created. in the united states, you have senators and congressmen who make the laws because the people want them to. in the nation states it is the parliamentarians who make the laws, because the people do. but here in the eu it is civil servants. in reality, the eu stating it wants better regulation is like the captain of a sinking ship shouting out loudly he wants more holes.
in writing. – ukip today voted against the approval of a new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. ukip is opposed in principle to the eu having any power of any kind to make and pass legislation, whether by way of directive, regulation or any other means which will have primacy over uk law and thus over-ride the sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament. secondly, we do not believe that this interinstitutional agreement will alter in any way the profoundly undemocratic nature of the european union in general or the european parliament in particular. thirdly we note that this document is, in terms, a singular and ringing indictment of the nature of the last 59 years of legislation by the eu and its predecessor organisations. the new agreement identifies with clarity the very real deficiencies in eu law-making which has placed so damaging a burden on the competitiveness and profitability of uk businesses, the vast majority of whom do not even do business outside the uk. for those reasons, we have voted against this agreement.
in writing. – ukip today voted against the approval of a new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. ukip is opposed in principle to the eu having any power of any kind to make and pass legislation, whether by way of directive, regulation or any other means which will have primacy over uk law and thus over-ride the sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament. secondly, we do not believe that this interinstitutional agreement will alter in any way the profoundly undemocratic nature of the european union in general or the european parliament in particular. thirdly we note that this document is, in terms, a singular and ringing indictment of the nature of the last 59 years of legislation by the eu and its predecessor organisations. the new agreement identifies with clarity the very real deficiencies in eu law-making which has placed so damaging a burden on the competitiveness and profitability of uk businesses, the vast majority of whom do not even do business outside the uk. for those reasons, we have voted against this agreement.
in writing. – i voted against the interinstitutional agreement on better regulation as it was a missed opportunity to open up the legislative process to scrutiny. after all, consultation, evaluation and transparency are what better regulation should be about, not deregulation which suits only corporate interests. it must be remembered that brussels is second only to washington dc in terms of paid professionals attempting to either influence public policy or political decisions. the eu capital has an estimated 30 000 lobbyists. this is not accidental; it is a concerted effort to retain power and to remove political and economic decisions from democratic debate and influence and thus from the hands of citizens. in a modern democracy, there is no reason why the decision-making process cannot be both efficient and transparent. that is the crux of the issue: the eu is fundamentally undemocratic and it is not concerned with efficiency, it is deregulation that they are concerned with, and efficiency is used to conceal the agenda of financial deregulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the approval of a new interinstitutional agreement on better law making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. i am opposed in principle to the eu having any power to make and pass legislation, whether by directive, regulation or any other means that would have primacy over uk law and override the sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament. secondly i do not believe that this agreement will alter in any way the profoundly undemocratic nature of the eu in general or the european parliament in particular. the document is a singular and ringing indictment of the nature of the past 59 years of legislation by the eu and its predecessor organisations. the new agreement identifies with clarity the very real deficiencies in eu law making which has placed such a damaging burden on the competitiveness of profitability of uk businesses.
in writing. ‒ ukip today voted against the approval of a new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. ukip is opposed in principle to the eu having any power of any kind to make and pass legislation, whether by way of directive, regulation or any other means which will have primacy over uk law and thus over-ride the sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament..
in writing. ‒ ukip today voted against the approval of a new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. ukip is opposed in principle to the eu having any power of any kind to make and pass legislation, whether by way of directive, regulation or any other means which will have primacy over uk law and thus over-ride the sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament. secondly, we do not believe that this interinstitutional agreement will alter in any way the profoundly undemocratic nature of the european union in general or the european parliament in particular. thirdly we note that this document is, in terms, a singular and ringing indictment of the nature of the last 59 years of legislation by the eu and its predecessor organisations. the new agreement identifies with clarity the very real deficiencies in eu law-making which has placed so damaging a burden on the competitiveness and profitability of uk businesses, the vast majority of whom do not even do business outside the uk. for those reasons, we have voted against this agreement.
in writing. – ukip today voted against the approval of a new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. ukip is opposed in principle to the eu having any power of any kind to make and pass legislation, whether by way of directive, regulation or any other means which will have primacy over uk law and thus over-ride the sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament. secondly, we do not believe that this interinstitutional agreement will alter in any way the profoundly undemocratic nature of the european union in general or the european parliament in particular. thirdly we note that this document is, in terms, a singular and ringing indictment of the nature of the last 59 years of legislation by the eu and its predecessor organisations. the new agreement identifies with clarity the very real deficiencies in eu law-making which has placed so damaging a burden on the competitiveness and profitability of uk businesses, the vast majority of whom do not even do business outside the uk. for those reasons, we have voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ ukip today voted against the approval of a new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. ukip is opposed in principle to the eu having any power of any kind to make and pass legislation, whether by way of directive, regulation or any other means which will have primacy over uk law and thus over-ride the sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament. secondly, we do not believe that this interinstitutional agreement will alter in any way the profoundly undemocratic nature of the european union in general or the european parliament in particular. thirdly we note that this document is, in terms, a singular and ringing indictment of the nature of the last 59 years of legislation by the eu and its predecessor organisations. the new agreement identifies with clarity the very real deficiencies in eu law-making which has placed so damaging a burden on the competitiveness and profitability of uk businesses, the vast majority of whom do not even do business outside the uk. for those reasons, we have voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the current provisions date back to 2003 and were in need of revision. i welcome the fact that impact assessments will take social and environmental – as well as economic – factors into account. other good aspects include the commitment to enhanced transparency in the law-making process. the institutions calling on member states to ‘clearly communicate’ to their public when implementing eu measures is valuable. in light of the uk referendum the benefits of eu membership do need to be articulated. people need to see us in this parliament acting in their interest. the onus is on national capitals to keep people abreast of developments at european level. there are, of course, other factors – such as how much of what we discuss in this place will get reported and in what way. this we cannot control. nonetheless, this agreement goes some way to allaying concerns about bureaucracy. it represents a step in the right direction if people can be better aware that this parliament is on the side of citizens from birmingham to bucharest.
in writing. ‒ ukip today voted against the approval of a new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. ukip is opposed in principle to the eu having any power of any kind to make and pass legislation, whether by way of directive, regulation or any other means which will have primacy over uk law and thus over-ride the sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament. secondly, we do not believe that this interinstitutional agreement will alter in any way the profoundly undemocratic nature of the european union in general or the european parliament in particular. thirdly we note that this document is, in terms, a singular and ringing indictment of the nature of the last 59 years of legislation by the eu and its predecessor organisations. the new agreement identifies with clarity the very real deficiencies in eu law-making which has placed so damaging a burden on the competitiveness and profitability of uk businesses, the vast majority of whom do not even do business outside the uk. for those reasons, we have voted against this agreement.
in writing. – ukip today voted against the approval of a new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. ukip is opposed in principle to the eu having any power of any kind to make and pass legislation, whether by way of directive, regulation or any other means which will have primacy over uk law and thus over-ride the sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament. secondly, we do not believe that this interinstitutional agreement will alter in any way the profoundly undemocratic nature of the european union in general or the european parliament in particular. thirdly we note that this document is, in terms, a singular and ringing indictment of the nature of the last 59 years of legislation by the eu and its predecessor organisations. the new agreement identifies with clarity the very real deficiencies in eu law-making which has placed so damaging a burden on the competitiveness and profitability of uk businesses, the vast majority of whom do not even do business outside the uk. for those reasons, we have voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it will allow for better application of eu law, respecting agreements with social partners, and for more transparency.
in writing. ‒ ukip today voted against the approval of a new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. ukip is opposed in principle to the eu having any power of any kind to make and pass legislation, whether by way of directive, regulation or any other means which will have primacy over uk law and thus over-ride the sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament. secondly, we do not believe that this interinstitutional agreement will alter in any way the profoundly undemocratic nature of the european union in general or the european parliament in particular. thirdly we note that this document is, in terms, a singular and ringing indictment of the nature of the last 59 years of legislation by the eu and its predecessor organisations. the new agreement identifies with clarity the very real deficiencies in eu law-making which has placed so damaging a burden on the competitiveness and profitability of uk businesses, the vast majority of whom do not even do business outside the uk. for those reasons, we have voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ ukip today voted against the approval of a new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. ukip is opposed in principle to the eu having any power of any kind to make and pass legislation, whether by way of directive, regulation or any other means which will have primacy over uk law and thus over-ride the sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament. secondly, we do not believe that this interinstitutional agreement will alter in any way the profoundly undemocratic nature of the european union in general or the european parliament in particular. thirdly we note that this document is, in terms, a singular and ringing indictment of the nature of the last 59 years of legislation by the eu and its predecessor organisations. the new agreement identifies with clarity the very real deficiencies in eu law-making which has placed so damaging a burden on the competitiveness and profitability of uk businesses, the vast majority of whom do not even do business outside the uk. for those reasons, we have voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which proposes changes in annual and multiannual programming, which will give the parliament more say in the process. this report demonstrates a commitment to more transparency in the legislative process, especially on behalf of the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on better lawmaking. it is a step in the right direction and i will work hard, along with conservative colleagues, to ensure the agreed text is put into practice.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank my labour colleague for his work on this report, and reiterate my own position: very often, our colleagues on the right use ‘better-law making’ or ‘better regulation’ as coded jargon for deregulation, liberalisation, austerity, and the scrapping of important social policies. socialists and democrats, and all those who want to see a more social and more equal europe will never let such a misuse of language stand. better law-making and better regulation must include a social perspective: how to create a society where social inclusion is advanced, equality is promoted, and fundamental rights are upheld. often, the absence of laws and legislative initiatives only serve to perpetuate ongoing exclusion or stalemate. we must use the opportunity of fresh commitment to better law-making to move towards a strong social europe.
in writing. – we recognise the intention of these agreements as helping in the fight against counterfeit cigarettes and note that so-called ‘plain whites’ cause particular problems. however, as ukip meps there is another issue: the various motions for resolution all support further legislation by the commission. we are unconvinced that this will do any good; the commission has a poor track record on such matters. the tobacco products directive in particular is a poorly-drafted piece of legislation. we note further that many of the reports call for non-renewal of the agreement with pmi. we consider it to be unrealistic to expect pmi to adhere to their side of the agreement once an agreement is no longer in force; balance is required. we therefore opposed the various motions for resolutions on this subject.
in writing. – we recognise the intention of these agreements as helping in the fight against counterfeit cigarettes and note that so-called ‘plain whites’ cause particular problems. however, as ukip meps there is another issue: the various motions for resolution all support further legislation by the commission. we are unconvinced that this will do any good; the commission has a poor track record on such matters. the tobacco products directive in particular is a poorly-drafted piece of legislation. we note further that many of the reports call for non-renewal of the agreement with pmi. we consider it to be unrealistic to expect pmi to adhere to their side of the agreement once an agreement is no longer in force; balance is required. we therefore opposed the various motions for resolutions on this subject.
in writing. ‒ we recognise the intention of these agreements as helping in the fight against counterfeit cigarettes and note that so-called ‘plain whites’ cause particular problems. however, as ukip meps there is another issue: the various motions for resolution all support further legislation by the commission. we are unconvinced that this will do any good; the commission has a poor track record on such matters. the tobacco products directive in particular is a poorly-drafted piece of legislation. we note further that many of the reports call for non-renewal of the agreement with pmi. we consider it to be unrealistic to expect pmi to adhere to their side of the agreement once an agreement is no longer in force; balance is required. we therefore opposed the various motions for resolutions on this subject.
in writing. ‒ we recognise the intention of these agreements as helping in the fight against counterfeit cigarettes and note that so-called ‘plain whites’ cause particular problems. however, as ukip meps there is another issue: the various motions for resolution all support further legislation by the commission. we are unconvinced that this will do any good; the commission has a poor track record on such matters. the tobacco products directive in particular is a poorly-drafted piece of legislation. we note further that many of the reports call for non-renewal of the agreement with pmi. we consider it to be unrealistic to expect pmi to adhere to their side of the agreement once an agreement is no longer in force; balance is required. we therefore opposed the various motions for resolutions on this subject.
in writing. – we recognise the intention of these agreements as helping in the fight against counterfeit cigarettes and note that so-called ‘plain whites’ cause particular problems. however, as ukip meps there is another issue: the various motions for resolution all support further legislation by the commission. we are unconvinced that this will do any good; the commission has a poor track record on such matters. the tobacco products directive in particular is a poorly-drafted piece of legislation. we note further that many of the reports call for non-renewal of the agreement with pmi. we consider it to be unrealistic to expect pmi to adhere to their side of the agreement once an agreement is no longer in force; balance is required. we therefore opposed the various motions for resolutions on this subject.
in writing. ‒ we recognise the intention of these agreements as helping in the fight against counterfeit cigarettes and note that so-called ‘plain whites’ cause particular problems. however, as ukip meps there is another issue: the various motions for resolution all support further legislation by the commission. we are unconvinced that this will do any good; the commission has a poor track record on such matters. the tobacco products directive in particular is a poorly-drafted piece of legislation. we note further that many of the reports call for non-renewal of the agreement with pmi. we consider it to be unrealistic to expect pmi to adhere to their side of the agreement once an agreement is no longer in force; balance is required. we therefore opposed the various motions for resolutions on this subject.
in writing. ‒ i voted against extending the agreement with philip morris international (pmi) which was signed in 2004 with the intention of tackling the illicit tobacco trade. since then, a lot has changed. the illicit tobacco market has changed significantly. it is now mainly made up of cheap whites (foreign brands made for the black market) which weren't covered under the 2004 agreement. the tobacco products directive and the who’s framework convention on tobacco control sufficiently address our concerns. at the same time it is important we don't have dual standards here. i opposed these deals 12 years ago, which effectively subsidise tobacco producers. tobacco related deaths in some parts of my west midlands constituency are more than one-and-a-half times the national average. the illicit tobacco trade costs the uk gbp 2bn a year. the tobacco products directive will help track, trace and stop the movement of illegal tobacco products. only with cooperation at eu level can we tackle this problem – it would be so much more difficult for us in the uk were we to do this on our own.
in writing. ‒ we recognise the intention of these agreements as helping in the fight against counterfeit cigarettes and note that so-called ‘plain whites’ cause particular problems. however, as ukip meps there is another issue: the various motions for resolution all support further legislation by the commission. we are unconvinced that this will do any good; the commission has a poor track record on such matters. the tobacco products directive in particular is a poorly-drafted piece of legislation. we note further that many of the reports call for non-renewal of the agreement with pmi. we consider it to be unrealistic to expect pmi to adhere to their side of the agreement once an agreement is no longer in force; balance is required. we therefore opposed the various motions for resolutions on this subject.
in writing. – we recognise the intention of these agreements as helping in the fight against counterfeit cigarettes and note that so-called ‘plain whites’ cause particular problems. however, as ukip meps there is another issue: the various motions for resolution all support further legislation by the commission. we are unconvinced that this will do any good; the commission has a poor track record on such matters. the tobacco products directive in particular is a poorly-drafted piece of legislation. we note further that many of the reports call for non-renewal of the agreement with pmi. we consider it to be unrealistic to expect pmi to adhere to their side of the agreement once an agreement is no longer in force; balance is required. we therefore opposed the various motions for resolutions on this subject.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the extension of an agreement with philip morris, as changes in the market and regulatory environment mean it is no longer the best means to continue the fight against illicit tobacco. the commission should focus on implementing the 2014 eu tobacco directive, which provides for more effective tools, such as an interoperable tracing and tracking system for the cigarettes at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that this resolution emphasises that the commission must take immediate steps to ensure the full transposition of the tobacco products directive in all member states.
in writing. ‒ we recognise the intention of these agreements as helping in the fight against counterfeit cigarettes and note that so-called ‘plain whites’ cause particular problems. however, as ukip meps there is another issue: the various motions for resolution all support further legislation by the commission. we are unconvinced that this will do any good; the commission has a poor track record on such matters. the tobacco products directive in particular is a poorly-drafted piece of legislation. we note further that many of the reports call for non-renewal of the agreement with pmi. we consider it to be unrealistic to expect pmi to adhere to their side of the agreement once an agreement is no longer in force; balance is required. we therefore opposed the various motions for resolutions on this subject.
in writing. ‒ we recognise the intention of these agreements as helping in the fight against counterfeit cigarettes and note that so-called ‘plain whites’ cause particular problems. however, as ukip meps there is another issue: the various motions for resolution all support further legislation by the commission. we are unconvinced that this will do any good; the commission has a poor track record on such matters. the tobacco products directive in particular is a poorly-drafted piece of legislation. we note further that many of the reports call for non-renewal of the agreement with pmi. we consider it to be unrealistic to expect pmi to adhere to their side of the agreement once an agreement is no longer in force; balance is required. we therefore opposed the various motions for resolutions on this subject.
in writing. ‒ we recognise the intention of these agreements as helping in the fight against counterfeit cigarettes and note that so-called ‘plain whites’ cause particular problems. however, as ukip meps there is another issue: the various motions for resolution all support further legislation by the commission. we are unconvinced that this will do any good; the commission has a poor track record on such matters. the tobacco products directive in particular is a poorly-drafted piece of legislation. we note further that many of the reports call for non-renewal of the agreement with pmi. we consider it to be unrealistic to expect pmi to adhere to their side of the agreement once an agreement is no longer in force; balance is required. we therefore opposed the various motions for resolutions on this subject.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, i cannot support the pmi agreement renewal in its current form. the agreement was supposed to reduce significantly counterfeit tobacco product smuggling, but it did not achieve this. instead the agreement seems to have benefited philip morris international (pmi), insofar that there was an reduction in the amount of counterfeit pmi products sold, but the trade of illicit tobacco products overall has not reduced. we need to get up and running a framework for tracking and tracing tobacco products in order to bring down this kind of activity, for which the tobacco products directive provides. the tories, meanwhile, have clearly shown where their allegiances lie: with the big corporations and not the interest of the public.
in writing. ‒ here, yet again, is an example of the eu being able to tackle a serious public health issue in a manner that member states cannot undertake alone. the tobacco industries’ attempts to foil the tobacco products directive were ferocious; we have seen pmi’s aggressive strategies of intimidation, and law-suits against governments all around the world who try to regulate tobacco products. the directive was adopted in 2014 much due to the tenacious and determined work of labour meps. european national governments would most likely not have been able to stand strong in the face of mass lobbying from a large industry, and this demonstrates the collective strength of eu legislators. i welcome the eu signing up to the who programme to tackle illicit trade in tobacco products, and support my s&d colleagues in their work on this important public health and public interest issue.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted to end the current agreement with philip morris international because it has not fulfilled its aim of reducing the illegal tobacco trade. the agreement requires the company to pay an annual fee to the eu and to pay a fine if their own cigarettes are seized during smuggling, but there have been few seizures of genuine branded products. philip morris is also actively opposing the tobacco products directive, despite it containing a framework for the tracking and traceability of tobacco products. there are 700 000 smoking-related premature deaths every year in the eu and we should not be extending agreements that do not work. instead, labour meps want to see the tobacco products directive framework up and running, and new proposals for tackling unbranded cigarettes.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, despite being a country of only six million people, eritreans form the second largest ethnic group in the current migrant crisis, with many seeking passage to the united kingdom. much of this has to do with the country’s brutal military dictatorship, which suppresses all liberties and enforces unlimited military conscription, rather than economic hardship. so can someone tell me why the eu has seen fit to boost its economic aid to eritrea’s despotic leaders, who are said to be operating a totalitarian government with no accountability and no rule of law? surely this is yet another example of the eu blindly throwing british taxpayers’ money at a problem without the slightest understanding of what the root causes and influencing factors are.
mr president, as chair of the committee on development, there are many things i am proud about regarding eu development policy, but the decision by the ministers and the commission to award an aid programme to eritrea is not one of them. you have heard colleagues from across this parliament talk about the appalling human rights situation in eritrea, and that is why in november our committee unanimously asked that no decision on a new programme be made without further dialogue with parliament, without further discussion with ministers. but you went ahead and you signed off on that programme, and the view of parliament was not just ignored, it was not even reported to the edf committee. i hope i have your assurance, minister – and there is nobody here from the commission, i hope we get their assurance also – that this does not happen again. this is a very serious decision and i hope that when the spending and annual action programmes come forward parliament will be involved in these matters. secondly, minister, you said that the money will go to tackle poverty, but 87% of the funding is due to be allocated to energy projects – but to whom is the money going? there is no private sector in eritrea. who is getting the money? that is what we need to know. finally, you said our response is part of a current response to the migration crisis – that makes me even more sceptical. the number of eritreans getting refugee status in my country is going down. and let us be clear: the eritreans who come are refugees from an appalling political system – they are not migrants. i think we should make no link, no tie-up, between our relationship with eritrea and reducing the number of refugees coming from that country. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– it is very difficult to engage with a government which carries out such appalling human rights violations, and i am questioning the very basis of having an aid programme with such a government. what we have agreed now is a kind of framework. no money has actually been allocated. i am asking that, before any money is actually allocated, a lot more thought go into this and parliament be fully involved.
mr president, eritrea is a country that faces many challenges. political instability, human rights abuses and forced conscription have led to a humanitarian crisis. eritrea is a major source of people in the ongoing migration crisis, with tens of thousands making the perilous journey to europe. with somalia, eritrea and the sudan on its borders, ethiopia’s role in providing for security in the horn of africa must not be overlooked. over 130 000 refugees from eritrea are hosted by ethiopia and credit must be given for the leading military role that ethiopia plays in the fight against al-shabaab. mr president, more must be done to address the political and economic drivers for the migration crisis originating in eritrea and, as in the middle east, it is only through close partnership with regional powers and support for people close to home that we can address this issue quickly and in the best possible way, both for people in the north of africa and the middle east and for those here in europe.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i have been rapporteur and i am now both shadow rapporteur and parliamentary mediator for this country and i remain utterly committed to it joining the european union and – on behalf of the socialist and democrats – i have been very happy to join with my alde and ppe colleagues to put aside our own party differences – to encourage the parties in skopje to do the same. but there is a grave political crisis where europe’s commitment is not questioned but where the democratic commitment in the country very much is. so in our vote tomorrow we will send some very clear messages. as mr hahn has repeated this afternoon, the commission has made the positive recommendation to start the eu accession talks contingent on full implementation of the pržino inter-party agreement, which we helped to negotiate. the european council has supported him in their december conclusions and tomorrow this parliament will stand squarely with them and say, preserve your democracy or the positive recommendation is withdrawn. after the latest set of talks in which we were involved last month, when the ruling vmro party claimed that we had agreed no further media reforms before the election and no further electoral assessments, as mediators and with clear statements from the eu and us ambassadors, we put on record that these were not part of any agreement and the dutch president-in-office, i am grateful, has repeated that this afternoon. the position of the council and the commission, to be fully supported by parliament tomorrow, is that progress must continue to be made on urgent reforms and i note that the commission has told us that there has been backsliding. i also note that the special prosecutor investigating the deep allegations of criminality against politicians has told us that she has not received the full cooperation which she needs from the country’s court system and in our vote tomorrow we reiterate that she must be given full powers and autonomy to undertake her work. i and my group will not join those who use the fact that this country is at the heart of the refugee crisis in order to attack it. we do insist on solidarity with skopje to match the solidarity needed from all countries if there is to be an adequate response. but tonight we do send a very tough message. a tough message that politicians are not yet fulfilling their obligations and that there is no alternative to them doing so. a tough message: not against the macedonian people, but for them, for their democracy and for a better future for their country. we are sure that is what they want and their politicians must demonstrate that they want it too. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i do stand by those s&d amendments, and i also say to our greek friends that our friends in skopje can never use the lack of reconciliation of the name issue as an excuse not to pursue those reform priorities. but i also appeal to our greek friends to make progress too on the name issue, in the interest of your country, in the interest of theirs, and in the interest of europe.
mr president, as we are hearing during this debate, the name of macedonia has been a diplomatic headache since the break-up of yugoslavia, clearly illustrating a deep-seated contradiction within the eu. as a candidate country with aspirations of eu membership, macedonia must align to the common foreign and security policy. as my country prepares to decide on our continued eu membership, we are already hearing one argument for remaining. it is that somehow the cfsp acts as an amplifier for british foreign policy, despite our permanent seat on the un security council and our nato membership. yet the macedonian name issue highlights precisely how the eu is not an amplifier for member state foreign policy. rather, it is an independent force with its own logic, sometimes at odds with those member states for the sake of his own aims. the eu discredits british foreign policy in gibraltar, by backing spain against gibraltarians even though they are, of course, eu citizens. thus, the uk is not treated any differently, and nor it we be if we give the commission free rein by voting to remain eu members on 23 june. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– you raise the issue of gibraltar, which clearly is not part of this debate. in the event of brexit, what kind of leverage would the united kingdom have over the spanish government in keeping the border of gibraltar and spain open? why is it that almost all gibraltarians will be voting to remain and virtually none voted for your party at the last european election? they know full well that britain remaining in the european union is the only way in which spain will be obliged to keep that border open. please comment.
blue-card answer.– mr tannock, one day you will realise that the eu is not the answer for everything. i mean this is the hypocrisy of the issue. we have one rule for spain with regard to her territories in morocco and one rule for the british territory of gibraltar, and does that not just highlight the hypocrisy of this place? we have our organisation of other international organisations, the united nations security council, which we are a permanent member of, and i think we will be in a far better position to actually stand up for british interests and british citizens’ interests, including our dependent territories, when we reclaim our place as a global trading nation and turn our back on this shambles of a democracy.
mr president, macedonia is a small landlocked country with internal political tensions that would indeed greatly benefit, as a country, from further euro-atlantic integration. the interim government in macedonia shares my view and is keen to pursue its rightful membership of the european union in order to progress and to advance its economy. we need to strongly support the candidacy of macedonia, calling on member states with concerns to find ways of seeking solutions and compromise, particularly over the vexed name question. in the ongoing migration crisis, macedonia is facing huge pressures and it has also now got elections in june. all these things are particularly delicate, particularly given the inter-ethnic relations, which have always been fragile in this small country. accession negotiations with macedonia have been stalled now for far too long, and we should not waste any more time in beginning what will be another lengthy process. as its neighbours in the western balkans move ahead, i do not want to reach a future point in which macedonia is still only a candidate country surrounded by states which are all in the european union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– this is strictly speaking not directly related to montenegro, for which i am the rapporteur. montenegro does not have the border pressures that macedonia has, of course. i think a figure of something like eur 700 million – from memory, as i am not on the relevant committee for this – has been identified in terms of aid. clearly macedonia is under enormous pressure with the closure of the border, but i am of the opinion that you cannot have unlimited numbers of migrants: there has to be a deal. we looked at the deal that was done with turkey, we now hope that will be effective in slowing down the flow, and i hope that the western balkans can cope and that there will be a programme with turkey which will enable these people to remain in their camps in turkey, lebanon and jordan, rather than all coming to europe via the balkans.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, 2016 is a very important year for montenegro politically. as it approaches its 10th anniversary since independence, the country is not only going to the polls in parliamentary elections, it is also in the process of crucial negotiations regarding its accession to nato following its invitation to join the alliance last year. montenegro continues to progress well, and has now opened 22 chapters including the key ones of 23 and 24, and 2016 will see the opening of further chapters and hopefully the provisional closing of others. as both the commission report and the resolution as adopted in committee note, corruption and organised crime continue to be of concern, along with some aspects of media freedom, but the situation is generally improving and progress is being made. we are seeing an increased number of charges brought against those involved in high-level corruption, and the work of the special prosecutor’s office is beginning to establish itself. with the launch of the anti-corruption agency on 1 january this year i am encouraged by the increase in state resources that have been made available to tackle these issues. but of course there are some concerns as to the administrative capacity of such institutions in terms of their financing and these need to be addressed. but we must remain conscious of the financial constraints facing a very small country like montenegro, which already gets some specialist assistance from neighbouring former-yugoslav countries already in the eu, like slovenia and croatia. very much to its credit, montenegro has been a leading example in aligning its foreign policy with that of the eu’s cfsp and its member states, and it has clearly demonstrated its ability to interact competently with its partners on such issues. montenegro bravely fully aligned itself with the eu on the sanctions regime against russia following the annexation of crimea despite its economic ties with that country, and works in close cooperation with the european union in tackling international jihadi terrorism. there will be much talk in the year ahead of the need for a referendum regarding nato membership. my position as rapporteur is clear in that i believe this is an internal matter for montenegro and not something that we in the eu should be interfering with. that being said, however, we should be aware of the wider context of the debate and the external influences that are being brought to bear on tiny montenegro. in summary, i am very happy with the resolution before us today and i am pleased that we have been able to work constructively across the political groups to agree to this in the committee. i always say that montenegro is the good news story of the western balkans, but with the added current pressure that the migration crisis has brought to the entire western balkans region, montenegro is increasingly seen as a beacon of stability too.
madam president, nato’s contribution to the safety and security of europe has been immeasurable, when their principles of collective security secured the west against soviet oppression and nuclear war. i have, and always will, stand against the eu’s attempts to piggyback onto these achievements. it is nato that secured peace on this continent, not the european union. however, what honest friend to nato would i be if i did not offer criticism when i believed it necessary. i have misgivings over the accession of montenegro to the alliance. europe is in the middle of its most insecure time since glasnost. whilst we must not bow down to pressure from putin, we must also not needlessly provoke further potential for conflict. realistically, what can montenegro contribute to the alliance in military terms? the great strength of nato is that it is a military alliance, and, unlike the european union, not a political union. but it would seem in this case that political posturing has trumped military sense.
madam president, montenegro is a key example of how the eu is able to push for positive reform in third countries, using its collective weight to promote stability, prosperity and human rights in its neighbourhood to benefit us all in a way a single member state would be unable to do. close cooperation with montenegro is not just key in view of its position on the migration route running through the western balkans – it is also a transit country for trafficking of illegal weapons that could end up in europe. i applaud the increased cooperation with the eu under the action plan against illicit arms trafficking that was adopted by the commission in the wake of the paris attacks. i also welcome the recent opening of two negotiation chapters with the eu on transport and energy, giving a new boost to our relations with this important neighbour. yet some important concerns remain: further progress has to be made on strengthening the rule of law, reforming the judiciary and fighting corruption. the elections this year will be another key test. in order for them to be free and fair, implementing the new electoral legislation will be vital, as will making sure that the media are able to operate freely and independently.
madam president, much of the parliamentary discussion and indeed contact from the public has been around antimicrobial resistance. of course this is important and i completely endorse the approach taken by the rapporteur in terms of the restriction on prophylactic use, but there are other things in this report and i particularly wanted to say thank you to the rapporteur and the team of shadows for listening to calls from the uk where we are asking to continue our long-established and very well—thought—of practice of using specially qualified persons. i welcome this flexibility and the recognition that one-size-fits-all does not always work, especially given the background of the referendum debate in the uk – it gives me something very positive to say. can i just end my time by urging colleagues not to vote for the retabled gm banning amendment. this would take 19 well used veterinary products off the market. it is a dangerous precedent. we should make a very clear distinction between gm crops and gm science for medicine.
madam president, the link between the overuse of antibiotics on farms and the growth in resistant bacteria was put starkly by the uk’s chief medical officer, liam donaldson, who said that every inappropriate use of antibiotic in animals is potentially signing the death warrant for a future patient. with a range of medical organisations raising the alarm about the spread of antibiotic resistance, it is incumbent upon european policymakers to introduce strict regulation of their use, both in humans and in animals. at present, antibiotics can be prescribed to all animals on a farm if only one animal is sick, and can be given to animals that show no sign of disease but are merely at risk of catching an infection. we are pleased that the new regulations will ban this sort of routine use of antibiotics. as greens, we are determined that the use of antibiotics should not be a substitute for good animal husbandry. when animals are kept in insanitary conditions in overcrowded sheds, their health inevitably suffers and infections spread more easily. less intensive farming practices would ensure better lives for animals, as well as reducing the demand for antibiotics.
madam president, we in ukip believe that the responsible use of all veterinary medicines in the uk is of great importance, especially for those drugs used in british livestock, where it is vital that our farmers are able to maintain the high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare for which we are well known. however, i do not believe that veterinary medicine should be used to improve performance or to compensate for poor animal husbandry. i think that all veterinary medicines, especially antibiotics, should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licencing conditions. however, current eu legislation, which came into force in 2001 and 2004, has caused the uk a number of problems, in particular the high costs due to the considerable administrative burden imposed by brussels. thus we in ukip oppose the creation of a new regulatory framework that we believe will be as damaging as the old one. ukip believes that only the uk government should be able to legislate in this area, and post-brexit they will.
author.– madam president, many people think of the thalidomide issue as history – something that happened in the middle of the last century and was dealt with. nothing of course could be further from the truth. the effects of thalidomide are not just historic: they are ongoing, they are in the present. many thalidomide survivors and their families across europe have suffered for over 50 years and are still suffering without adequate financial support; they cannot meet their everyday living costs and they certainly cannot meet their health costs. they do not want to live a life of luxury: they want enough to live in relative comfort, free from worry and chronic pain. those who are still in work find it increasingly difficult to maintain a full-time working schedule; their mobility is deteriorating and often depression can be heaped on top of this critical physical condition. so what is happening to help? well, different countries in europe have dealt with this in different ways and we know that in germany the government is contributing to the funding for survivors via the conterganstiftung. this is a welcome acknowledgment of their responsibility. so what then of all the other sufferers in europe who have received little or nothing? they are still waiting for the german government to address its moral responsibility and allocate the relatively modest, and annually decreasing, sums required. so why have we brought this here to the european parliament? for me, it is about saying to the commission: please, mr andriukaitis, help us to take this forward, help us to broker a deal that will be put in place for every single one of those victims, so that they can live out the rest of their lives in the comfort that they have been denied until now.
author.– mr president, for many years now, thalidomide survivors have had to campaign for justice – my constituents in wales, like those across the european union. as their health needs increase we must do all we can to ensure that action is now taken – action which is long overdue. we know that the campaign goes on to ensure that all the facts come to light regarding the german government’s role in the premature ending of the 1970 trial; the only ever criminal trial relating to the whole thalidomide scandal. because it ended early, valuable evidence was suppressed and many thalidomide survivors could not make claims for compensation to cover their lifelong needs as a result. while some survivors have received some support, others have received nothing. we want equality and justice for all the survivors in all countries. as their elected representatives we want to ensure that their present and future care needs are met. we need to look at a european framework to achieve that; they have already waited over 50 years. it was believed that over 10 000 babies worldwide were affected by thalidomide; more recent information suggests that the numbers were much, much higher than that. there is a wealth of evidence about the ongoing suffering and the increasing health needs of the survivors. detailed studies have been done in the uk and in germany, which show just how urgent these needs are. there has been strong cross-party support in this house for the campaign for justice, the 50 year fight. i believe that it is time for us to act now to help put right a terrible wrong.
author.– mr president, firstly i want to congratulate and recognise thalidomide victims across europe and campaigners for their dogged persistence in their campaign. in may 2015, nine months ago, meps of every political group here in the eu parliament insisted that a solution be found to the scandal of the lack of action of the urgent needs of thalidomide victims. a solution to a problem that is approaching 60 years old. during those 60 years the german government system and the pharmaceutical company concerned have deployed every possible prevarication and procrastination tactic to avoid addressing those needs. all these organisations should be absolutely ashamed of their actions, resorting to every legal and administrative excuse, loophole and delaying tactic to prevent a financial settlement. it is absolutely scandalous and an affront to human dignity that this situation continues. survivors, many of them profoundly disabled, are still however human beings and they should be treated as such. they require an adequate and reasonable sum to help them cope with the daily challenges that life throws at them as they get older. their needs should not be ignored. for an institution that trumpets a minimum wage or a living wage or even human rights for the healthy and non-disabled individuals, why is it so supremely difficult to find a financial sum that will allow thalidomide victims to also live a normal life as best as their disability allows. i now call on the commission, the council and meps to censure the german government and state, and the commercial interests concerned, for this inhumane, cruel and unnecessary delay. nine months is bad enough; 60 years is inexcusable.
mr president, this evening i want to place on record my ongoing support for the victims and survivors of the thalidomide tragedy, for whom the absence of truth, justice and compensation continues to overshadow their everyday lives. over five decades on, the pain, suffering and trauma caused by the effect of this drug for pregnant women remains as salient as ever. today we fight for those who live with the consequences. but we also think of those who were robbed of a chance to live full and free lives. reports such as ‘securing our future’ in the uk evidenced the financial cost of living with thalidomide and, after much lobbying, our national government makes a contribution by a health grant in lieu of its role in this scandal. however, the united kingdom was not the only guilty party. it is high time that the german government took it upon itself to address its moral responsibilities to thalidomide survivors right across europe: in sweden, in the united kingdom, in spain and in italy. let us get real: the estimated cost of between eur 18 million and eur 25 million is not a lot to one of europe’s major powers, but it would mean everything to these survivors and their families. i trust that this debate will send a powerful message to the german government that this issue and this brave band of individuals is not going away.
mr president, for the thalidomide survivors, like my constituent lizzy – the important point she made to me was that as survivors age, their health problems and care needs become more complex. she wants to live independently, as long as possible, and make choices in her life, choices which the rest of us take for granted. these choices allowing you to live in your own home for as long as possible could be as simple as adapting a bathroom, or changing a kitchen. what they are asking for is not huge but is something the german government could practically help with as these 6 000 surviving victims age and enter a new period in their lives: a period where they should have a quality of life and live with dignity. their asking tonight for the german government to help those remaining survivors across the eu is important. i am pleased to see how this issue unifies us across parliament and so it should. we will all continue to campaign on this subject and i am pleased that this is the start of this campaign being heard; not in the corridors and the offices but on the floor of this house where it belongs.
blue-card question.– i found your speech very interesting, and you referred to companies. can i just ask and double check with you: are you assuming that only companies will be subject to any legislation, directive or regulation that the eu dreams up? what do you feel in terms of political organisations, governments, state bodies, local authorities – in fact any organisation where a whistle-blower exposes some wrongdoing? i do find it difficult to see how the eu would be able to influence that, but i would welcome your comments.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, there is no more difficult subject than whistle-blowing, given its interpretations. the options are: is it revelation or is it revenge? the more secretive or controlling and authoritarian a state is, the more contentious and confrontational whistle-blowing becomes. now, it is difficult enough in the united kingdom where we have a cultural attitude and a legal structure to facilitate genuine whistle-blowing; but for many other countries and member states, whistle-blowing is just too confrontational to the state mechanisms. i do not believe that the commission has any role in this remit, and i have heard this evening comments about installing minimum standards. well there is absolutely no guarantee that those minimum standards would be adopted. we have got proof of that in other areas. i would remind people in the chamber this evening – the few that there might be – that citizens of former communist countries still remember that night-time knock on the door, and that was the result of whistle-blowing. so this is a subject where platitudinous generalisations and approaches are an insult to individuals demonstrating great personal courage and risk in the face of real issues. i do not think the eu has a role in this area.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, firstly may i take this opportunity – one i did not think i would have with my portfolio – to welcome the commissioner to the parliament? like many people, until a month or so ago, i had never really heard of zika. when i started to read about it i kind of assumed it was something very new and i was quite surprised to find that actually zika has been around a long time. what is new is the rapid spread. so it is surprising that we have, in fact, so little information about how it is spreading and, indeed, so few inroads made into research, into preventing that spread, into a vaccination, etc. so i am delighted to hear that we are going to be speeding that process up. so my question really is: how will this ongoing information – we have heard about the work that is going to be done, and i am sure we will hear more – be transmitted to parliament, and will the commission be setting up a mechanism for regular reporting, be this via ecdc or not, to parliament, and also to member states, because we would very much like to be kept updated?
mr president, a point of order: the interpreter during the course of mr giegold’s speech said that the lady, ms von storch, had committed an untruth. in english, that is a lie. is it parliamentary language in this chamber to call another member of this chamber a liar? is it possible that the interpreter was wrong and mr gielgold did not say that? if he did, i have no course with that. should we be allowing lies?
blue-card question.– i have one very simple question. we have a banking union report. is it your view that there is only one method of looking after banks in the european union – that is, the banking union – or could there possibly be other methods or options available for improving growth and jobs and dealing with inflation that could be used instead of banking union?
mr president, a long, long time ago in a distant age before man landed on the moon, before the internet and mobile phones, even before the eurovision song contest, there was an idea of a new country rising out of europe, a new empire – the united states of europe. in that new empire there would be a need for a new currency and also a new bank – the european central bank. that bank would improve the productivity, the employment chances, the opportunities for european citizens. we will move ourselves forward to today. we have unemployment averaging 11%, youth unemployment in many countries over 30%, productivity down, gdp down. today the world has moved on, but the european union and its ideas have not. they are stuck in the past. there are very talented people and it is very sad. there are very talented people like commissioner hill, who are trying to complete an old idea from an old past into the modern world. all of which should give us one solution. think of those countries outside the euro area that are prospering. there are ideas better than the one that you already have today. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– it is always a pleasure to receive questions from you, mr hökmark. one of the things that is very important is the idea that you say a jungle – while i say competitive regulations across the globe – which is resulting in the fact that in the euro area you have high unemployment, negative inflation, almost deflation, and low productivity, when those countries, like the united kingdom, which are outside of the euro area, which has a more flexible competitive basis, are the ones that are seeing high growth, high employment levels, high productivity, much better than those in the european union. the question you have to ask yourself is, by having one single set of rules, why is it that that one single set of rules is destroying europe, while those who have competitive rules are improving across the globe?
madam president, i strongly condemn the atrocious killing of giulio regeni and express my solidarity with the relatives of the victim. we need an independent, credible investigation into his death. sadly the case of giulio follows a long list, running into hundreds, of enforced disappearances that have occurred in egypt since the military takeover. we demand justice for giulio and his family; we also demand justice for the number of egyptians who continue to suffer a similar fate on a daily basis. the security forces and the judiciary have failed to hold officers to account in cases where citizens have been tortured to death, or which involved excessive use of force. the egyptian authorities urgently need to repeal the repressive protest law and all other repressive legislations that are being used for internal repression under the pretext of security of the state. we need to take all the necessary steps to ensure the egyptian government does carry out these reforms in order to maintain peace and stability in egypt.
madam president, as a british member of the european parliament i express our concern, with our italian colleagues, over the case of giulio regeni and indeed for all victims of human rights abuse in egypt and amongst the egyptian people. in my speech i want to speak in favour of the paragraph which asked mr hahn and his european commission colleagues to specifically regulate the european export of surveillance equipment used for repression in the light of the latest privacy international report, which suggests that such exports were made by nokia siemens from germany and the hacking team based in italy. the egyptian government has developed and maintained, within its own intelligence infrastructure, a secret unit with an extensive budget and mass surveillance capabilities, with no public scrutiny whatsoever. i believe the european companies involved in these exports are in breach of the un guiding principles on business and human rights and i ask for european action to ensure such complicity becomes illegal under european law.
in writing. – ukip supports the economic development of all countries, and trade preferences can be a part of this. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct any part of uk trade policy.
in writing. ‒ ukip supports the economic development of all countries, and trade preferences can be a part of this. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct any part of uk trade policy.
in writing. ‒ ukip supports the economic development of all countries, and trade preferences can be a part of this. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct any part of uk trade policy.
in writing. – ukip supports the economic development of all countries, and trade preferences can be a part of this. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct any part of uk trade policy.
in writing. ‒ ukip supports the economic development of all countries, and trade preferences can be a part of this. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct any part of uk trade policy.
in writing. ‒ ukip supports the economic development of all countries, and trade preferences can be a part of this. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct any part of uk trade policy.
in writing. – ukip supports the economic development of all countries, and trade preferences can be a part of this. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct any part of uk trade policy.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attack of 26 june 2015 in sousse, tunisia, the council of the european union, in its conclusions of 20 july 2015, stated that the european union, in consultation with its member states, would explore the option of taking exceptional measures to support the tunisian economy. olive oil is tunisia’s main agricultural export product to the eu and the olive oil industry is an important part of the country’s economy. i therefore see these measures as delivering on our promise.
in writing. ‒ ukip supports the economic development of all countries, and trade preferences can be a part of this. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct any part of uk trade policy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the provision of this measure to support the tunisian economy. this country in north africa is perhaps the only example that has survived the arab spring. but it pays the price, as it is repeatedly attacked by islamist terrorists. tunisia therefore deserves our full support and that is why i support this motion.
in writing. ‒ ukip supports the economic development of all countries, and trade preferences can be a part of this. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct any part of uk trade policy.
in writing. ‒ ukip supports the economic development of all countries, and trade preferences can be a part of this. however, we feel that the eu has no right to conduct any part of uk trade policy.
in writing. – we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. with regard to economic incentives provided by pharmaceutical companies, whilst recognising the issues surrounding commercial practice and the specific use of incentives in the human and veterinary healthcare sectors, ukip is concerned about a negative impact on the provision of cost benefit analyses and other health economic data and studies by neutral and independent academic research institutions. this is an area where the uk and usa institutions are world leaders and thus unnecessary eu interference has the potential to adversely affect their investigative work and its applications. ukip believes that the eu should have no jurisdiction in what is a global arena for drug development and cannot enforce the removal of products from the market in this manner – this would penalise leading drug development companies including world-leading uk corporations.
in writing. – we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report on veterinary medicinal products. whilst a shorter length of patent protection would have been preferable to allow more affordable generics to enter the market sooner, overall this report is a positive step forward in the field of veterinary medicines. one of the key issues for both human and animal health addressed in this report is antimicrobial resistance, with a proposal for a strict limit on prophylactic use where antibiotics are applied to healthy animals – a process with worrying implications for antibiotic resistance, especially for vital antimicrobial medicines uses for humans. with the who warning that the world is on the cusp of entering a post-antibiotic era with grave implications for human health, it is essential that we act now and take measures to effectively tackle the very dangerous risks we face if we do not face up to the threat of antibiotic resistance.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. with regard to economic incentives provided by pharmaceutical companies, whilst recognising the issues surrounding commercial practice and the specific use of incentives in the human and veterinary healthcare sectors, ukip is concerned about a negative impact on the provision of cost benefit analyses and other health economic data and studies by neutral and independent academic research institutions. this is an area where the uk and usa institutions are world leaders and thus unnecessary eu interference has the potential to adversely affect their investigative work and its applications. ukip believes that the eu should have no jurisdiction in what is a global arena for drug development and cannot enforce the removal of products from the market in this manner – this would penalise leading drug development companies including world-leading uk corporations.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. with regard to economic incentives provided by pharmaceutical companies, whilst recognising the issues surrounding commercial practice and the specific use of incentives in the human and veterinary healthcare sectors, ukip is concerned about a negative impact on the provision of cost benefit analyses and other health economic data and studies by neutral and independent academic research institutions. this is an area where the uk and usa institutions are world leaders and thus unnecessary eu interference has the potential to adversely affect their investigative work and its applications. ukip believes that the eu should have no jurisdiction in what is a global arena for drug development and cannot enforce the removal of products from the market in this manner – this would penalise leading drug development companies including world-leading uk corporations.
in writing. – we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. with regard to economic incentives provided by pharmaceutical companies, whilst recognising the issues surrounding commercial practice and the specific use of incentives in the human and veterinary healthcare sectors, ukip is concerned about a negative impact on the provision of cost benefit analyses and other health economic data and studies by neutral and independent academic research institutions. this is an area where the uk and usa institutions are world leaders and thus unnecessary eu interference has the potential to adversely affect their investigative work and its applications. ukip believes that the eu should have no jurisdiction in what is a global arena for drug development and cannot enforce the removal of products from the market in this manner – this would penalise leading drug development companies including world-leading uk corporations.
in writing. ‒ i support the creation of a more streamlined system of regulation of veterinary medicines allowing for improvements in the treatment of animal diseases. this reduction of bureaucracy in the industry is an important tool in assisting the development and production of medicines and treatment and safeguarding animals.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. with regard to economic incentives provided by pharmaceutical companies, whilst recognising the issues surrounding commercial practice and the specific use of incentives in the human and veterinary healthcare sectors, ukip is concerned about a negative impact on the provision of cost benefit analyses and other health economic data and studies by neutral and independent academic research institutions. this is an area where the uk and usa institutions are world leaders and thus unnecessary eu interference has the potential to adversely affect their investigative work and its applications. ukip believes that the eu should have no jurisdiction in what is a global arena for drug development and cannot enforce the removal of products from the market in this manner – this would penalise leading drug development companies including world-leading uk corporations.
in writing. – we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. with regard to economic incentives provided by pharmaceutical companies, whilst recognising the issues surrounding commercial practice and the specific use of incentives in the human and veterinary healthcare sectors, ukip is concerned about a negative impact on the provision of cost benefit analyses and other health economic data and studies by neutral and independent academic research institutions. this is an area where the uk and usa institutions are world leaders and thus unnecessary eu interference has the potential to adversely affect their investigative work and its applications. ukip believes that the eu should have no jurisdiction in what is a global arena for drug development and cannot enforce the removal of products from the market in this manner – this would penalise leading drug development companies including world-leading uk corporations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as it provides better access to veterinary medicines, takes measures to fight antimicrobial resistance, reduces the administrative burden, and promotes innovation and competitiveness within the sector.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission’s draft regulation, i believe that it is a move in the right direction and fully agree with the commission’s objectives and its view that the veterinary medicines market should be separated from the human medicines market, which works very differently. the commission is right to stress the importance of product availability and simpler administrative procedures without sacrificing the principles of public health and the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. with regard to economic incentives provided by pharmaceutical companies, whilst recognising the issues surrounding commercial practice and the specific use of incentives in the human and veterinary healthcare sectors, ukip is concerned about a negative impact on the provision of cost benefit analyses and other health economic data and studies by neutral and independent academic research institutions. this is an area where the uk and usa institutions are world leaders and thus unnecessary eu interference has the potential to adversely affect their investigative work and its applications. ukip believes that the eu should have no jurisdiction in what is a global arena for drug development and cannot enforce the removal of products from the market in this manner – this would penalise leading drug development companies including world-leading uk corporations.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that we need to have a regulation that provides better access to veterinary medicines, so i voted in favour of this because i believe that measures need to be taken to fight against antimicrobial resistance due to the routine use of prophylactic antibiotics, as well as aiming to reduce the administrative burden. we need to see an environment where this sector can innovate and develop the best medicinal products possible.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support a ban on routine prophylactic use of antibiotics in farming to help fight antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. ‒ i support this report on new veterinary medicines legislation, which will stimulate innovation and provide new solutions to tackling animal diseases.
in writing. – we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. – we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. – we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. – we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. ‒ the commission is decoupling legislation on human and animal medicines and adopting a specific regulation on veterinary medicines. therefore, i supported this proposal as it simply amends the regulation to remove references to veterinary medicines and adapts it to the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i broadly endorse the proposal and welcome the alignment to the lisbon treaty. i welcome the decoupling of marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products from those for human medicinal products, to take account of the specific needs of the veterinary sector.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that a responsible use of all veterinary medicines in british livestock farming is vital to maintaining our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare. we believe that all veterinary medicines including antibiotics should be used responsibly, under veterinary care and according to licensing conditions. we believe that the british parliament should be able to legislate on this issue without being overruled by the unelected eu commission.
in writing. ‒ parliament, in my view, has to be involved as the co-legislator, not just as a matter of principle, but also that by establishing a european medicines agency, parliament ought to be involved in the setting up the structure and level of fees payable by industry to the european medicines agency.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which has the aim of decoupling legislation on human and animal medicines and adopting a specific regulation on veterinary medicines. this regulation is therefore being amended to remove references to veterinary medicines.
mr president, i fully support the resolution towards a data-centred economy, and, in particular, the references to digital skills. if we are to enable our citizens to truly grasp the possibilities of the digital world, we need to coordinate action across member states. the need to provide digital education and training opportunities – whether it is in school, college, university, at the work place or in pensioners’ clubs – has never been so important. if we do not have digital skills, we cannot access the potential of the digital single market to create jobs and support the european economy. we need digital skills to be at the heart of all that we do. as the swedish prime minister offered to hold a special summit on social europe yesterday, i would like to see also a digital skills summit organised and prioritised so that no eu citizen is left behind in this digital revolution.
in writing. – we in ukip oppose the eu commission proposal ‘towards a thriving data-driven economy’. we oppose new eu prescriptive legislation. we believe that europe can achieve competitiveness by creating incentives and removing obstacles. it can achieve it by setting free the entrepreneurial spirit of business and industry.
in writing. – we voted against this resolution as it was unbalanced, with a strong focus on public—private enterprise, and not enough emphasis was placed on data protection or privacy protection. the fact that the resolution is 9 pages long with 45 paragraphs and has only 5 fleeting references to data protection means that it is completely big—business oriented. the few references to data protection in the resolution are taken completely from the point of view of businesses rather than the point of view of the user or consumer, saying that data protection is in the interest of big data companies as creating trust can foster growth. the report talks about having default privacy models built in to operating systems for the benefit of fast development of companies rather than for users. the report also assures businesses that data protection and opportunities for the integrated use of data ‘are not mutually exclusive’. this clearly is not written in favour of users. it was for these reasons that we voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the uk is leading the world in capturing the possibilities of big data and the benefits it could bring to businesses in every sector. it is the new kid on the block and has the potential to change how data is collected and analysed for the considerable future. however, with it come dangers, more and more personal data is being collected on each of us and already allows targeted advertising. it is important to have regulations in place that lay out what data can be collected and how to ensure the public know that their data is being collected and how that data can then be used. the uk already has a framework in place for the security, control, ownership, the portability and reusability of this intellectual capital. i do not support this report as i do not believe that it is in the best interests of the uk for the eu to be deciding how uk businesses are allowed to use this resource. we should not allow the eu to be a barrier to innovation or the revolution of technology that will only benefit the uk economy.
in writing. – we in ukip oppose the eu commission proposal ‘towards a thriving data-driven economy’. we oppose new eu prescriptive legislation. we believe that europe can achieve competitiveness by creating incentives and removing obstacles. it can achieve it by setting free the entrepreneurial spirit of business and industry.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip oppose the eu commission proposal ‘towards a thriving data-driven economy’. we oppose new eu prescriptive legislation. we believe that europe can achieve competitiveness by creating incentives and removing obstacles. it can achieve it by setting free the entrepreneurial spirit of business and industry.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip oppose the eu commission proposal ‘towards a thriving data-driven economy’. we oppose new eu prescriptive legislation. we believe that europe can achieve competitiveness by creating incentives and removing obstacles. it can achieve it by setting free the entrepreneurial spirit of business and industry.
in writing. – we in ukip oppose the eu commission proposal ‘towards a thriving data-driven economy’. we oppose new eu prescriptive legislation. we believe that europe can achieve competitiveness by creating incentives and removing obstacles. it can achieve it by setting free the entrepreneurial spirit of business and industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling to support and accelerate the transition towards a data-driven economy in europe. it will stimulate research and innovation on data while leading to more business opportunities and an increased availability of knowledge and capital, in particular for smes, across europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which stresses that the processing of certain kinds of data, in particular personal data, falls under the scope of eu data protection law and urges, in this connection, the swift adoption of the data protection package.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip oppose the eu commission proposal ‘towards a thriving data-driven economy’. we oppose new eu prescriptive legislation. we believe that europe can achieve competitiveness by creating incentives and removing obstacles. it can achieve it by setting free the entrepreneurial spirit of business and industry.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the imco committee, which is currently dealing with the broad issues of the digital market, i welcome the fact that the european parliament is dealing with the issue of the data-based economy. the eu will best support this type of economy by setting basic rules, but will not try to intervene and regulate every detail. if we really want to help, let's add support for education, which will prepare citizens well to participate fully in the data economy.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip oppose the eu commission proposal ‘towards a thriving data-driven economy’. we oppose new eu prescriptive legislation. we believe that europe can achieve competitiveness by creating incentives and removing obstacles. it can achieve it by setting free the entrepreneurial spirit of business and industry.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip oppose the eu commission proposal ‘towards a thriving data-driven economy’. we oppose new eu prescriptive legislation. we believe that europe can achieve competitiveness by creating incentives and removing obstacles. it can achieve it by setting free the entrepreneurial spirit of business and industry.
in writing. ‒ back in 2014, the commission drew up a new strategy on ‘big data’ which sought to support and accelerate the transition towards a data-driven economy. i will support initiatives which seek to positively assist in the development of the digital revolution.
in writing. ‒ ict technologies are indeed central to our future, and big data holds an enormous potential. i would like to give special emphasis to some elements included in this report: big data technologies must not breach or limit the fundamental rights to privacy or freedom of expression. initiatives must be taken to ensure that the big data economy is inclusive of marginalised groups and advances gender equality. investing in education for ict literacy starting from an early age all the way up to higher education, and including life-long learning, is among the most important steps towards an ict—driven economy. this must specifically target vulnerable and marginalised or disadvantaged groups, and particularly women and girls. entrepreneurship education should include ict subjects and big data technologies in order to promote the growth of the sectors, including smes, start-ups and alternative business models such as cooperatives. greater public debate of the potential impact of emerging technologies should be promoted in order for citizens to be able to make democratic decisions on what an ict— and big-data—driven future might look like.
mr president, i have supported this resolution, which expresses concern about the situation in eritrea. the situation is truly tragic. one of the poorest countries in the world with a totalitarian regime that treats its citizens more or less like prisoners. he tortures them, sends them on a military service that is indefinite. it's good to remember that this is one of the primary countries that brings a large number of refugees to europe, the largest after syria, without the country itself being in a civil war. it is a consequence of the totalitarian regime of the president of that country, and it is good that we have adopted a resolution condemning that regime and calling on the president and the government of that country to make amends. there's a question of how much this will affect the behavior of the totalitarian junta there, but i think it's good to at least point this out, although i'm afraid it's not likely to do anything about the behavior of the president and his administration.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. we do not recognise the authority of the european union or the european parliament to take decisions or positions on foreign policy issues. in particular, the humanitarian crisis has led to eritrea becoming one of the biggest source countries for migrants in the ongoing crisis. on balance, we abstained.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. we do not recognise the authority of the european union or the european parliament to take decisions or positions on foreign policy issues. in particular, the humanitarian crisis has led to eritrea becoming one of the biggest source countries for migrants in the ongoing crisis. on balance, we abstained.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. we do not recognise the authority of the european union or the european parliament to take decisions or positions on foreign policy issues. in particular, the humanitarian crisis has led to eritrea becoming one of the biggest source countries for migrants in the ongoing crisis. on balance, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. we do not recognise the authority of the european union or the european parliament to take decisions or positions on foreign policy issues. in particular, the humanitarian crisis has led to eritrea becoming one of the biggest source countries for migrants in the ongoing crisis. on balance, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. we do not recognise the authority of the european union or the european parliament to take decisions or positions on foreign policy issues. in particular, the humanitarian crisis has led to eritrea becoming one of the biggest source countries for migrants in the ongoing crisis. on balance, we abstained.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. we do not recognise the authority of the european union or the european parliament to take decisions or positions on foreign policy issues. in particular, the humanitarian crisis has led to eritrea becoming one of the biggest source countries for migrants in the ongoing crisis. on balance, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ according to a report by the un special rapporteur, eritrea has one of the worst human rights records in the world, with no improvement in sight. eritreans fleeing the country now constitute the third largest group of refugees making the perilous journey to europe. therefore, i supported the resolution as its purpose is not only to highlight and call for improvements to the appalling human rights situation, but to consider how eu aid and resources can be best focused to address the situation and help bring about change.
in writing. ‒ this timely resolution notes with great concern the continuing deplorable human rights situation and the complete absence of rule of law and media freedom in eritrea.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. we do not recognise the authority of the european union or the european parliament to take decisions or positions on foreign policy issues. in particular, the humanitarian crisis has led to eritrea becoming one of the biggest source countries for migrants in the ongoing crisis. on balance, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. we do not recognise the authority of the european union or the european parliament to take decisions or positions on foreign policy issues. in particular, the humanitarian crisis has led to eritrea becoming one of the biggest source countries for migrants in the ongoing crisis. on balance, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. we do not recognise the authority of the european union or the european parliament to take decisions or positions on foreign policy issues. in particular, the humanitarian crisis has led to eritrea becoming one of the biggest source countries for migrants in the ongoing crisis. on balance, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the situation of human rights in the state of eritrea has been deteriorating for a long time: civilians are regularly and arbitrarily detained or arrest for a number of unjustifiable reasons. criticism of the government or, in anyway undermining the state by engaging in subversive journalism or practicing an unsanctioned religion is punishable in this country. i supported this resolution because it will not only highlight and call for improvements to the inexcusable human rights situation in eritrea, but it will also consider how aid and resources from the eu can be best focused to address the situation in order to encourage change.
in writing. ‒ i would like to use this opportunity to raise the issue of the situation of women in eritrea, and how european authorities treat women refugees. this is especially important in the context of the report on women refugees that parliament adopted this week. eritrea has ratified all major human rights conventions, including the convention for the elimination of discrimination against women (cedaw), and yet has one of the most appalling human rights records on earth. the majority of eritrean women are subject to female genital mutilation (fgm), and refugees from that country are likely to have experienced fgm. european authorities receiving eritrean refugees on our borders and across member states must be trained and equipped to deal with those who have undergone fgm, in terms of healthcare and psychological support, as well as taking into account fgm (and the complexity of dealing with it) in asylum requests.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report and its support for the improvements and political and judicial reforms in macedonia as it continues accession talks begun in 2012. macedonia’s progress is one part of the ongoing efforts to increase stability in the western balkans, which is a key goal for the uk in its engagement with the region.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it urges the country’s political leadership to implement the june/july 2015 settlement agreement in full and deliver urgent reforms. this would help the country to overcome its political crisis, prepare for early free and fair elections and pave the way for the start of eu accession negotiations.
in writing. ‒ this resolution notes that, according to the june/july 2015 agreement, the new government was to be sworn in on 15 january 2016, 100 days before the agreed date for early parliamentary elections; takes note of the vote by the macedonian parliament on 23 february 2016 to set a new date for early parliamentary elections of 5 june 2016; regrets, however, that an opportunity was missed to find a consensus between all parties; recalls that these elections will in themselves be an important test for the democratic process of the country; insists that all the political parties make efforts to create the conditions for credible early elections and underlines the paramount importance of these elections being free, fair, in full compliance with international standards and in line with osce/odihr recommendations.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i support this report as it makes credible recommendations to open accession negotiations on the condition of the full implementation of the political agreement in pržino last summer as well as make substantial progress on the implementation of the urgent reform priorities. the report reiterates that bilateral issues should not be used to obstruct the accession process to the eu, but should be addressed in a spirit that is constructive and as early as possible take into account the principles and values of the eu and the un in its accession process. it is important that all political parties in the fyrom make an effort towards creating the conditions for credible early elections and that an all-party agreement remains essential.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank my labour colleague for his unrelenting work on this subject, working with parties in macedonia in order to resolve their differences. i feel i must express my deep concern at the treatment of refugees by macedonian authorities on the borders of the european union. thousands stuck in makeshift conditions, being moved around and caught in the crossfire of tensions between governments. it is the most vulnerable who pay the price of diplomatic bickering. macedonian and greek authorities, with support from the eu, must ensure that refugees in their territories have access to humane conditions of shelter, sanitation, healthcare, and education.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ following successful domestic, judicial, economic and human rights reforms, i support montenegro’s ambitions to play a full role in the euro-atlantic community. as my colleague charles tannock’s report notes, montenegro has clearly made progress in its domestic anti-corruption reforms and has taken useful steps in tackling terrorist threats, all of which will serve it well in its ambition to join nato.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it welcomes montenegro’s steady progress in the accession negotiations and highlights the further steps to be taken, most importantly in the fields of media freedom and anti-corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, which welcomes the steady progress in the accession negotiations with montenegro, noting that 22 negotiation chapters, including chapters 23 and 24, have been opened so far, two of which have been provisionally closed; encourages tangible progress in meeting the benchmarks for the closing of chapters already under negotiation and for the opening of new chapters; stresses that progress in the negotiations must be accompanied by the strict implementation of relevant action plans and strategies; reiterates that overall progress in the negotiations depends on the progress in the implementation of the rule of law and the visible track record thereof.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ we are now almost four years into the accession process of montenegro, and it is great to see the progress which the country has made. i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the steps which need to be taken towards the country’s accession to the eu; most importantly, steps need to be made with regards to press freedom, anti-corruption and the lack of constructive cooperation between the government and its opposition on eu matters.
in writing. – this non-legislative report paints far too rosy a picture of the state of the eu’s supervision of the banking system, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – this non-legislative report paints far too rosy a picture of the state of the eu’s supervision of the banking system, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – the intention behind this new union and the report was supposedly to break the link between banks and sovereigns so as to avoid future taxpayer-financed bailouts (like those that were given to the banks between 2009-11). today, eight years into the crisis, there is still no meaningful regulation at either eu level or in ireland which effectively breaks up the ‘too-big-to-fail’ banks and downsizes them. the european banking sector and the irish banking sector are as concentrated and interconnected as ever. none of these problems were addressed in gualtieri’s annual report. nor does the report address mario draghi’s obvious conflict of interest. as the banking union has been placed under the ecb, draghi has become the eu’s chief bank supervisor. at the same time he is a member of the private g30 club of top executives from the world’s biggest banks. the annual report, which is the first of its kind, has two purposes: 1) to congratulate and rubberstamp the birth of a new bogus european institution; 2) prepare parliament’s position in the upcoming negotiations on the third and final pillar of the union, a european deposit insurance scheme. it was for these reasons that we voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report paints far too rosy a picture of the state of the eu’s supervision of the banking system, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report paints far too rosy a picture of the state of the eu’s supervision of the banking system, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – this non-legislative report paints far too rosy a picture of the state of the eu’s supervision of the banking system, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the banking union annual report highlights how it has been a great achievement encouraging future representation in the banking union of national competent authorities and non-participating member states. the ecr’s amendments, which acted as a counter-weight to these views, were rejected. in addition, this report does not contain an explicit reference stating that the interests of non-banking union participants should be respected in light of the european deposit insurance scheme. furthermore the single supervisory mechanism should not drive the legislative framework for non-participants of the banking union. regarding the ‘too big to fail’ issue, since the uk has adopted its own legislation in this area, a swift agreement at eu level in this field would not be welcomed if it were to undermine the uk’s own regime. as a result, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report paints far too rosy a picture of the state of the eu’s supervision of the banking system, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report paints far too rosy a picture of the state of the eu’s supervision of the banking system, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – this non-legislative report paints far too rosy a picture of the state of the eu’s supervision of the banking system, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it highlights the state of play of the banking union as well as the challenges it is still facing.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, which notes with satisfaction that the ethics rules of the ecb have been reviewed, and stresses the importance of effective rules on conflict of interests and safeguards against undue influence of the financial industry, on staff as well as on members of the governing bodies.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report paints far too rosy a picture of the state of the eu’s supervision of the banking system, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report paints far too rosy a picture of the state of the eu’s supervision of the banking system, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ after the financial crisis in 2008, one of the key achievements was the move towards a banking union. it was designed to ensure the resilience and safety of the banking and financial sectors, as well as – crucially – to restore confidence and investment in the real economy and highlight the high level of protection which citizens need from the failure of banks/financial firms. i have supported the steps that have been undertaken to achieve these measures, but i cannot consider the banking union complete. it lacks some key elements, such as a common deposit insurance scheme. in conclusion, this report has analysed the current situation of the banking union and raised priorities for where it should go from here. hence, i voted in favour of this report and thank my colleague roberto gualtieri for the effort and work that he put into writing it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which recognises that the banking union is instrumental in ensuring stability and restoring confidence in euro area banks, enhancing financial integration, reducing risk in the european banking system and moral hazard, contributing to breaking the link between sovereigns and banks and fostering risk-sharing within the monetary union.
in writing. ‒ although the banking union is a pillar of the monetary union that the uk is not party to, the increased economic stability it will provide is of great benefit to the british economy. such moves may well help prevent or mitigate the next financial crisis. i welcome the call in this report for banking union measures to take into account a diversity of business models, as cooperatives and mutuals have an important role to play in a more socially just and more democratic economy. we must always keep at the forefront of our minds that the banking and financial services industry is exactly that: a service for the real economy, that must result in inclusive and sustainable growth. never again must we promote the growth of our financial industries as an end in itself. the banking sector must be regulated to guarantee responsible decision-making for the benefit of ordinary working people and for those who are without employment. again, this is something that the eu can deliver, and that the uk, unfortunately, could not or would not do alone.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, of all the paternal advice that i was offered, i well remember a conversation with my father: ‘son’, he said, ‘never forget who you are and where you come from. if you cannot do this then you will never be true to yourself’. dad was a romani gypsy. his own mother was born in a caravan or, as we say in romani, a vardo. he was typical of many of his kith and kin. never held back by his own illiteracy, he was streetwise, shrewd and incredibly tough. as i am believed to be the only british parliamentarian of romani descent, i am proud to champion the real concerns facing a community living on the margins of uk society. on roma nation day i met with representatives of the international romani union, the gypsy council and traveller movement groups outside 10 downing street in london. i then hand-delivered a letter outlining my concerns over recent changes in uk planning legislation redefining a legal personality of a traveller, thus placing increased difficulties on my community, who already face a massive shortage of site provision. i also asked for the appointment of romanies to the uk holocaust commission, as the current absence from membership, despite the nazi genocide that cost some half a million lives, is felt as another instance of exclusion. in 21st-century britain there has never been a more pressing time to tackle the problems facing britain’s travelling communities. both the uk government and the westminster parliament must rise to that challenge instead of continually sweeping the issue under the carpet. i will not hold my breath.
rapporteur.– mr president, a colleague with a very good sense of humour said to me earlier today: ‘i so much look forward to your annual proposals for reform for subsidiarity, proportionality and better law-making’, and i did smile at him. it really has been a tremendous honour for me, over many years now, to be able to play my part in helping to develop the way in which we carry out our legislation-making processes. of course, i cannot do it alone, and i must acknowledge and thank all of my shadow rapporteurs who have helped me for many years now: tadeusz zwiefka, mady delvaux, sylvia-yvonne kaufmann, antónio marinho e pinto and, of course, colleagues like angelika niebler, who is currently leaving the chamber as i am addressing you all. colleagues, this is really a pivotal point for the european union and, indeed, for my country – the united kingdom – as well. i firmly believe that britain and the european union are stronger together, and i hope that, through our proposals, we can cement the relationship between this parliament and our national parliaments. britain’s input in the european union, i believe, benefits the entirety of europe. but this may be one of the last occasions that i, as an mep, am actually able to put forward proposals of this sort, because we are about to undergo a referendum in the uk that, at this stage, remains far too close to call. what concerns do our constituents, our citizens, actually have on this particular topic? well, they may not recognise the details that we attach and the names we attach, but they quite frequently say to all of us that the european union is too distant, that it is doing far too much, and that what it does applies to far too many people unnecessarily. and we, as a parliament, must address these pivotal issues. it is important for our own democratic accountability. in particular, if these reforms are rejected, we play into the hands of those who ultimately want to break the european union and weaken all of our citizens. we must not allow that to happen. it is in that spirit that our national leaders came to an agreement and have put that forward for us to consider, in accordance with how we wish to proceed. is the european union’s law-making too distant? well the role of national parliaments, and coupled with that, their responsibility and rights: we must bring national parliaments much closer to our eu decision-making processes. it is only by doing that that we strengthen them and we strengthen ourselves. indeed, i have to confess that my own house of commons eu scrutiny committee is not the best example of how eu legislation should be scrutinised, and i certainly do not recommend that as a way forward. is the european union doing too much? well, we must have europe only where necessary. subsidiarity – reasoned opinions from national parliaments – has increased, but not all of our parliaments are fully engaged. the impact assessment board itself has said that subsidiarity is not adequately addressed in our impact assessments. in my report, i also encourage more participation of national parliaments in the preparation of eu legislation, such as green papers or white papers. this could also include annual debates for each national parliament with the european commission. the yellow card procedure in the treaties should be easily implementable for national parliaments, since there are several circumstances in which difficulties have been reported. an extension to the eight-week time period for consultation with national parliaments under the subsidiarity check should be furthered. i have a number of other proposals which i will go into, but i will save those for when i come back at the end of the debate. but my final plea to colleagues is this: we have nothing to be frightened of when we say we want to empower ourselves and national parliaments to work much more closely to ensure that we, ultimately, are delivering legislation which is seen as relevant and proper by our citizens.
blue-card question.– i want to thank you for that contribution and ask: would you agree that people have become disillusioned with the european project not just because of the troika and all that it has done to the citizens, particularly the irish people, but also because the power of initiative resides with the commission? it should reside with us meps, who have been sent here to represent people, not with an unelected commission.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, this report on subsidiarity and proportionality quotes article 5 of the treaty, which says: ‘notionally invites consideration of whether exercise of an eu competence is necessary or could properly and effectively be done at the member state level’. how very decent of you to actually concede that some laws should be made by democratic nation states and not the eu. say something about subsidiarity. i might be wrong but i seem to remember about 24 or 25 years ago, when the treaty on european union was progressing, somebody suggested that there should be a cash prize for anybody that could actually define subsidiarity and describe how it would work in practice. as far as i know nobody ever won. proportionality is a bit late when the eu now controls most areas of domestic policy, and most of our laws now come from the eu, down to the wattage in electric kettles, toasters and vacuum cleaners. we recently saw the british prime minister on his hands and knees begging the eu to allow him to reduce vat on tampons, which is something that he is powerless to do. david cameron’s so-called reforms include something on the yellow card, which says that member states – not individual member states, of course: 15 together – can stop some legislation. i would like to ridicule this but i do not have to, because it was already ridiculed by william hague when he was foreign minister in parliament, when he absolutely tore this idea to pieces when it was proposed before. if you do not believe me you can see it on youtube, and you can see david cameron laughing away next to him. now he has adopted exactly the same policy as one of his most mooted reforms. you are all going to get a lesson in subsidiarity and proportionality when the british people have their referendum on 23 june and when they vote to leave. they are increasingly coming to understand that the essential question is: do you want to live in a democratic state or an undemocratic state where you do not elect and cannot sack your government in brussels?
rapporteur.– mr president, may i start by thanking the commission for its input today and indeed by putting on record the tremendous support that i have received for my ideas from frans timmermans. the commission work programme also reflects that. may i thank all colleagues from all sides of the house who took part in the debate today for putting forward, on the whole, their constructive observations. i know that, in most cases, even where we have disagreement, their proposals are based upon foundations where they are putting forward a critical but positive analysis of how they feel we can best move forward. so i thank all of my colleagues for their input. i wish briefly to touch upon one or two issues. first of all, in relation to the red card: this is not a veto. it was never proposed as a veto, and it was never envisaged to be anything of the sort. but the point is that, if we have the other measures that bring national parliaments much closer to our decision-making, we will never have a need for any of our national parliaments ever to have to exercise a red card, let alone for it to be described anywhere near a veto. on subsidiarity – once again this has been raised by colleagues – we must evaluate subsidiarity mid-term and at the end, but those evaluations are not binding. they provide a measure to ensure that we have not moved so far away from the subsidiarity principle that we are carrying out work at our level that we should not be doing. my liberal colleagues raised an issue in relation to the extension of the eight-week time period. i agree with them that any extension of the current deadline for submitting opinions on subsidiarity should indeed be incorporated into the treaties when they are next updated. finally, various comments were made by the extreme right of this house which were quite interesting for me, particularly from the ukip representatives, who are not present here. they made various points, but when it came to the technical issues, there were only two, and on both they were completely wrong. they were wrong in describing the red card as a yellow card, and i am pretty sure that the british people will show them the red card very soon indeed. the majority of laws that are made in the uk do not emanate from the eu. it is 13%. that is not a majority. so i look forward to showing them the red card on 23 june.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, my group will robustly rebut this resolution: we will not be voting for it. i could give you a long speech on the use of glyphosate and how important it is to agriculture. i do not have time for that, so let me just concentrate on what i see as the failures in the resolution. the resolution states, as part of its justification, that residues of glyphosate have been found in soil and water; well, yes, they have. but, as the german federal risk institute tells us, they have been found in quantities at less than 1% of the daily acceptable rate. it also states that residues have been found in food. again, this is not about hazard, this is about risk, and they are at levels way below those which are acceptable to human health. so why does this form such an upfront part of this resolution when it is frankly irrelevant? it also says, in recital j, that the current proposal has no restrictions on use. that is not the case. the draft implementing regulation clearly states that regulatory measures to identify co-formulants must be developed. it is already there in the draft regulation. so before we even think about the use of glyphosate and its value to us, we really ought to get our facts right. and where we talk about the precautionary principle, once again: the precautionary principle as enshrined in eu law is to take care of cases where there is not any scientific advice. there is a plethora of scientific advice here. that is one of the problems: that we have to choose between our own european food safety authority (efsa) advice and the international agency for research on cancer (iarc), and i see no reason to move away from efsa.
blue-card answer.– if i understood that correctly, this was a question about the use of glyphosate and – did you say cocoa? i am sorry but it did not come across very well in the translation. yes, there are many aspects of agriculture – some of them much closer to home than cocoa – in the european union that rely very heavily on the use of glyphosate. in some cases there is resistance, and that is why we have a sustainable use directive which lays out very clearly for farmers exactly how products such as glyphosate should be used and, if resistance is detected, what steps they should take. so i am perfectly confident that resistance can be dealt with, so no, i do not have a problem with that. we really do need glyphosate.
mr president, this house has a duty to ensure that public food is safe and that the environment is responsibly managed, and we must take those responsibilities very seriously indeed. but on the other hand, we must also ensure that decisions we make are strictly proportionate to risk, not to hazard, and we must be aware of the consequences of those decisions. in the case of glyphosate – a product which is endorsed by the food standards agency as safe and for which there is no immediate substitute – for the industry to achieve the same effects, it would have to revert to more traditional mechanical operations. i could not disagree more with some of the comments which were made earlier about mechanical operations. we would have to revert to greater use of other agrochemicals and, in consequence, we would add considerably to the costs of an industry that is already under great difficulty. this house must be guided by the facts and common sense, not emotion. i urge the commission to renew approval.
mr president, the single market is meant to make it easier for businesses and consumers to trade across 28 countries with 500 million consumers. it is not meant to add more costs; it is meant to remove costs and thus help our economies to grow, create jobs and growth. this report by my belgian colleague and supported by others from many countries tonight will say that we should only introduce new rules where it helps our economies to grow, that new rules should be simple and easy to apply, that small businesses in particular should have a lighter burden and that national parliaments should have a stronger voice and be able to use a red card to block unwanted laws. britain is not alone in asking for reform and it has been very good to hear colleagues from all across europe support this report tonight. i hope we will all vote for it in the plenary tomorrow.
madam president, i am very pleased to see this report, because much of my work prior to coming into politics was working with young people to foster exactly this kind of exchange, working with young people who did not have those kinds of opportunities through the more formal university higher education erasmus+ programmes. i just wanted to tell a little story which i think is important. in the summer of 2014 i went to be with some young people from the uk, russia, ukraine and romania who were all in the same space for two weeks, engaging with each other through the erasmus programme. this was at a time when ukraine and russia were at war with each other, but these young people in the same space learning from each other were not at war and could learn to live in peace together. we need more projects and programmes like this that can demonstrate how we can progress better living together.
madam president, more and more allegations of sexual abuse perpetrated by un peacekeepers have continued to surface over the past weeks. the un security council last month passed a resolution but, given that some countries attempted to water down the text, it is unlikely to be implemented vigorously. it is an outrage that the most vulnerable in this world – women and children who have lost everything – are preyed upon by those supposed to offer them protection. i am shocked to the core about allegations that girls in the central african republic were forced by a military commander to take part in acts of bestiality, or that soldiers were asking starving children for sex in exchange for food. these are members of the military from all over the world, including from europe. acting collectively, europe has the muscle to help end this sickening abuse. i call on high representative mogherini to make this a priority for coordinated eu action at the un, to ensure that all perpetrators are tried under criminal proceedings and to provide effective training that raises awareness that such abuse cannot be tolerated.
madam president, steelworkers and their families in port talbot and across the country are desperately worried about the uncertainty currently facing the uk steel industry. it is welcome news that tata has found a buyer for their scunthorpe steelworks. however, uncertainty remains about the future of steel-making in britain, putting thousands of jobs at risk and threatening an industry which is vital to the uk’s defence and security. faced with this crisis, the uk government’s response has been totally inadequate both in the eu and back at home. labour has put forward a clear four-point plan for the steel industry, including stabilising the industry and providing security for steelworkers, initiating a review into lowering costs like business and energy rates, fast-tracking infrastructure projects requiring large amounts of steel and engaging with the sector to lay out a long-term strategy for the future of the uk steel industry. i urge the uk government to act now to set out a long-term plan for the steel industry in britain and to back eu action against the importation of cheap chinese steel.
madam president, i welcome the news today that greybull capital has bought tata steel’s long products division, in a difficult deal brokered by local management and the unions in scunthorpe. it is good news for an industry in an existential crisis due to the massive dumping of cheap steel. contrary to the europhobes’ lies, the eu is not the cause of this crisis, but it is a crucial means for fixing it through strong trade defence measures. meps, the commission and governments representing 72% of europe's population are in favour of action, but it is our government – the british government – which is blocking that crucial eu action. stronger trade defence tools could be finalised in a matter of weeks, on 13 may at the eu trade council, and it is up to the uk government and david cameron to decide if they are really willing to save our steel communities and our vital industry.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality.– mr president, at every stage of their journeys to, and indeed within, europe, women and girls are targeted by people who seek to exploit them. women and girls are targets for smugglers and traffickers and are at risk of being sold into prostitution and domestic servitude. many of these are underage girls travelling on their own, as we have heard from one of the other speakers. all of these women and girls are at heightened risk of all forms of violence and sexual assault. therefore we need measures to meet the specific needs of women, and they have too often only been considered as an afterthought. most of the time there are not even minimum standards in reception centres for preventing violence against women, such as single-sex sanitation facilities, which would seem absolutely obvious. what we need, therefore, is gender sensitivity in all aspects of our policies, from the design stage to delivery and evaluation.
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteurs for their work, but i think the report has been a missed opportunity. the ecr group supports much of the european agenda on migration, but parliament has not focused on getting the eu’s asylum system working properly. combating human trafficking, returns, readmission, third-country cooperation agreements, detention conditions, fingerprinting, sharing of resources, external border controls and integration policies are themes that are merely touched on but absolutely key to finding a way forward. furthermore, the radical and impractical options suggested by parliament for the dublin regulation will not serve as well in a time when what we want is for member states to start following the rule book, not tearing it up. despite this, i look forward to working in the coming months on many of the commission proposals which my group can support. this is an important area and we must get it right.
mr president, anyone in britain who is still unsure on how to vote in the eu referendum should think about what is to come if they vote to remain in the eu. the report states that the eu treaty gives a legal basis to implement the principle of solidarity in the area of migration. this is part of a common immigration and asylum policy which britain cannot avoid if it stays in the european union. it calls for a binding mechanism on all member states for the distribution of asylum seekers. it says that asylum seekers should be viewed as seeking asylum in the union as a whole and not in individual member states. mrs merkel opened the floodgates by inviting anybody to come who wanted to. they took her at her word. more than a million have come and many millions more will try to follow. this was not done by accident. the eu has a commitment to endless, mass, uncontrolled migration, both within its borders and from without. david cameron did not even try to gain concessions on immigration in his so—called renegotiation with the european union. there is nothing in his famous reforms that takes back any control whatsoever over migration. if the british people want their government to have any control on migration whatsoever, then they must vote to leave the european union on 23 june.
mr president, i wish i could thank the rapporteurs for the report but, yet again, they have not confronted the elephant in the room: islam. the most comprehensive study of british muslims – and i would say muslims in europe, actually – ever conducted, by trevor phillips, the former chairman of the commission for racial equality, draws some very disturbing conclusions, particularly for the socialists in this house and the members of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. 39% of british muslims say that a woman must always obey her husband and submit to chastisement from him. more than half of muslims think lesbian and gay relationships should be illegal. more than 100 000 british muslims said that they had sympathy for people who take part in suicide bombings. only one out of three would report to the police if they knew someone was supporting terrorism in syria. a quarter would like sharia law to take precedence over english law. we are currently not talking about a tiny minority. unfortunately, these are widespread views among the muslim communities in the uk. i think the so-called refugees on our borders need to be repatriated to muslim countries, as their values are clearly incompatible with our liberal western democracies. this will avoid the current clash of cultures that denigrates the achievements of western civilisation and flouts the protection of women, the gay community and vulnerable children, who are being attacked by muslim gangs and migrants who deplore our way of life.
blue-card question.– thank you for taking the question. you speak about solidarity between the member states of the eu, and i understand from your speech that you wish to enforce that solidarity by forcing member states to take certain numbers of immigrants into their countries and also finding ways of legalising the immigrants so they become citizens of the eu. do you not realise that this is completely against the views of many – certainly of my constituents, but maybe even of yours? the people of the eu are not united behind you on this and you are enforcing something that nobody really wants.
blue-card question.– you talk about international law not being implemented and you talk about pathways. have you thought – because the commission is here, mr avramopoulos is here – about asking qatar, kuwait, saudi arabia, all those muslim countries in the middle east, if they would like to take their share? because at the moment they have taken zero.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i think everyone agrees that the crisis in agriculture throughout europe has been about the worst we have experienced – certainly it is the worst experienced in my political lifetime of almost 27 years in this parliament. i would like to say first that i do welcome the measures that have been taking place, but i have to say that they were not the solution. i also have to say that there are no easy solutions to the present problem we have. commissioner, i would also like to say to you that, on the one hand, we are doing – and you are doing – all we can to help, but on the other hand, we are using agriculture as a bargaining chip in free trade negotiations with mercosur and with ttip. is that a sensible way to go forward? do you really understand that farmers cannot understand where europe is hoping to go? you came to the committee on agriculture recently and you said that you were going to tackle bureaucracy and that there would be changes in the yellow card, for instance: one strike and two strikes. now i understand that the court of auditors is making sure that does not happen! commissioner, it has become even more complicated than what you tried to solve. will you take that up and try and solve it?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the commissioner will be relieved to hear that most of my remarks are not going to be addressed to him directly because he is the wrong commissioner, unfortunately, for this particular crisis in agriculture that is about to be visited on my industry by the european parliament. i refer to the quite possible ban on the use of glyphosate on farms. we are voting on this tomorrow and it would be disastrous. this is a really big crisis. what has brought this about? why are we even considering banning this very useful material? the reason is that the world health organisation has said that it is probably carcinogenic. on the face of it, we might all be very concerned about this, as it is serious and we should therefore not be using this material – until you look at what else the world health organisation also classes as probably carcinogenic. they say that sitting in front of a log fire in your home during the winter is probably a carcinogenic activity; they say that working night shifts is probably a carcinogenic activity; they say that cutting human hair (which will not worry the commissioner or me) is probably a carcinogenic activity; exposure to dry cleaning fluid is probably a carcinogenic activity, and drinking the national drink of argentina (which is called mate) is also probably a carcinogenic activity. when you look at these things, a ban on glyphosate is absolutely ludicrous – but it gets worse than that. what do they call definitely carcinogenic? well, that includes the consumption of alcohol, the ingestion of the female contraceptive pill, and the consumption of processed meats. these are deliberately ingested, whereas glyphosate is just something that you may happen to be exposed to. if we do go ahead with this ban, what are the alternatives? the alternatives are for farmers to have to cultivate the soil far more than they ever used to. if you believe that farmers can improve the world’s weather by reducing co2 emissions from their farms, you will have scored a massive own-goal here if you vote for this tomorrow, because you will pump out co2 from all these tractor operations to try and control perennial weeds of twitch and thistles and the new weed we are all getting now called black grass. that is all going to become much more difficult. now, what is all this really about? it is about not allowing farmers to grow gm crops, because if you ban glyphosate there will be no incentive to grow the gm crop. let us face it: that what the ban is in aid of. i am not sure whether the council are going to have a vote on this. i have been told that they may not, which means that our secretary of state for agriculture, elizabeth truss, will be told tomorrow that farmers in britain cannot use glyphosate. what an extraordinary state of affairs.
mr president, in northern ireland, farm incomes have been under pressure for some time. in the dairy sector this has been very extreme, with farmers receiving prices below the cost of production over many months. the aid package has only been of limited immediate help. the emphasis on new markets and new financial instruments is welcome but brings no immediate relief. the current deal on the table with the mercosur bloc will have a devastating impact on the beef sector in particular. it is unfortunate that a study on the cumulative effects of the trade agreements will not be complete until september. however, previous impact assessments carried out by copa find that benefits to agriculture would be one-sided and that eu farmers would suffer a disrupted internal market and greater price volatility. another predicted a 3% fall in farm income for britain and producer prices falling by nearly 8%. in light of the uk referendum debate, many farmers are telling me that they think little has been done to help agriculture and that it is time to take back control.
mr president, in the long term the future for agriculture is positive – not an easy message for farmers going through the most difficult times in living memory. i know commissioner hogan understands that well. i know that he will do everything within his powers to help this industry through very tough times. i also know that, relative to the depths of the farm income crisis, those powers are limited. but what he can and must do is find ways to help the industry become more productive, more competitive and more sustainable. agriculture needs r&d, innovation and simplification, and above all agriculture needs regulation based on common sense and proven science, not on emotion. the commissioner and the farmers understand that well. unfortunately, too many members of this house do not.
mr president, one of the causes of the crisis in agriculture is the growing gap between the urban and the rural – the growing gap between the consumer and the farmer. how have we ended up with a situation where some farmers in the european union are being paid below the cost of production? it simply is not fair. twenty years ago i and others worked to tackle unfair trade treatment of farmers in the developing world, resulting in the fairtrade mark. we now have lots of products from the developing world where the farmer has been paid a fair price: tea, coffee, bananas and cocoa. we now need to do the same for european farmers. twenty to thirty per cent of eu customers are willing to pay a fair price to their farmers; that is a big market. a fair price scheme for eu farmers will be difficult to set up, but where there’s a will there’s a way, and our farmers deserve no less.
in writing. ‒ the acp (african, caribbean and pacific) countries are poor countries which the eu aims to dominate politically and economically. one of the primary tools by which it does this is politicised trade deals, whereby market access is conditional upon submitting to eu political demands. the economic partnership agreements are amongst the most intrusive and formalised means by which the eu gains control over poor countries. we will vote against any attempt to make the eu more powerful towards actors in the global south.
in writing. ‒ the acp (african, caribbean and pacific) countries are poor countries which the eu aims to dominate politically and economically. one of the primary tools by which it does this is with politicised trade deals, whereby market access is conditional upon submitting to eu political demands. the economic partnership agreements are amongst the most intrusive and formalised means by which the eu can hold poorer countries to ransom. i voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the acp (africa caribbean pacific) countries are poor countries which the eu aims to dominate politically and economically. one of the primary tools by which it does this is politicised trade deals, whereby market access is conditional upon submitting to eu political demands. the economic partnership agreements are amongst the most intrusive and formalised means by which the eu gains control over poor countries. we will vote against any attempt to make the eu more powerful towards actors in the global south.
in writing. – the acp (african, caribbean and pacific) countries are poor countries which the eu aims to dominate politically and economically. one of the primary tools by which it does this is politicised trade deals, whereby market access is conditional upon submitting to eu political demands. the economic partnership agreements are amongst the most intrusive and formalised means by which the eu gains control over poor countries. we will vote against any attempt to make the eu more powerful towards actors in the global south.
in writing. ‒ this technical proposal aims to codify the market access regulation (1528/2007). having been amended nine times since its adoption, codification was necessary, hence i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it is a market access regulation, which sets out transitional rules for some acp countries ahead of the entry into force of economic partnership agreements (epa), and has been amended nine times since its adoption.
in writing. – the acp (africa caribbean pacific) countries are poor countries which the eu aims to dominate politically and economically. one of the primary tools by which it does this is politicised trade deals, whereby market access is conditional upon submitting to eu political demands. the economic partnership agreements are amongst the most intrusive and formalised means by which the eu gains control over poor countries. we will vote against any attempt to make the eu more powerful towards actors in the global south.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it is simply a technical proposal aimed at codifying the ‘market access regulation’ to ensure clarity and readability of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it is a good step in simplifying eu rules on our trade with the african, caribbean and pacific group of countries (the so-called acp). our trading relations with the acp has been in the process of being revamped for over 10 years, and as a result the applicable regulation has undergone many revisions, adding layers of complexity that now need to be simplified. this vote today therefore represents a small but not negligible step in the broader context of the conclusion of new economic partnership agreements (epas) with groups of acp countries. the epas raise a number of concerns, in particular in terms of sustainable development and the role of civil society. today’s vote does not preclude our final position on the epas, which will depend on whether our concerns are addressed, especially the need for a real monitoring process, including african trade unions and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal for the codification and recast of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, the so-called ‘market access regulation’ (mar), governing imports of products originating in certain acp countries. it is necessary because the market access regulation has already been amended nine times.
in writing. ‒ the acp (african, caribbean and pacific) countries are poor countries which the eu aims to dominate politically and economically. one of the primary tools by which it does this is politicised trade deals, whereby market access is conditional upon submitting to eu political demands. the economic partnership agreements are amongst the most intrusive and formalised means by which the eu gains control over poor countries. we will vote against any attempt to make the eu more powerful towards actors in the global south.
in writing. ‒ the acp (africa caribbean pacific) countries are poor countries which the eu aims to dominate politically and economically. one of the primary tools by which it does this is politicised trade deals, whereby market access is conditional upon submitting to eu political demands. the economic partnership agreements are amongst the most intrusive and formalised means by which the eu gains control over poor countries. we will vote against any attempt to make the eu more powerful towards actors in the global south.
in writing. ‒ i support the continuation of the non-least developed countries' quota-free and duty-free access to the eu market whilst the negotiations for a wto-compatible economic partnership agreement are underway.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical proposal aimed at codifying the market access regulation (1528/2007). the market access regulation, which sets out transitional rules for some acp countries ahead of the entry into force of economic partnership agreements (epa), has been amended nine times since its adoption. codification is therefore necessary to ensure clarity and readability of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against because we oppose this standard eu agreement structure.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this new protocol which should strengthen the cooperation between the european union and greenland. moreover, it aims to promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and a responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in greenland’s fishing zone. it is a multi-species agreement that foresees fishing opportunities for various species. the report contained some very positive provisions such as an emphasis on sustainable fishing practices having to be promoted in order to safeguard long-term productivity. there was a specific focus on the collapse of cod stocks in previous years, which was much needed and welcomed. for these reasons, we voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this agreement. i oppose the european union claiming member states waters and fishing opportunities as its own. the eu should not be allowed to have jurisdiction over member states´ natural resources. this agreement gives greenland €17.8 million for various tonnages of 10 species.
in writing. ‒ we voted against because we oppose this standard eu agreement structure.
in writing. – we voted against because we oppose this standard eu agreement structure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol which maintains fishing opportunities for eu vessels in greenland’s exclusive economic zone (eez). it will contribute to better management and conservation of fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ the fishing industry is an important one for the uk and for the south west; agreements like this which help to improve productivity in this sector are very welcome. this agreement will allow british fishing boats to access greenland’s waters and access species such as northern prawns, greenland halibut, cod and red fish. it represents the third most important partnership agreement for the european union in terms of economic value. the previous agreement from 2013 generated eur 10 million in direct value-added to the eu’s catching sector, so continuing the agreement will no doubt be economically beneficial. this is an excellent example of how agreements made at the eu level are directly benefitting fishermen in the uk and i was pleased to vote in favour alongside my british conservative and ecr group colleagues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol, it is the third most important fisheries partner agreement for the eu in terms of its economic value and it helps ensure coherence with eu fishing activities elsewhere in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. fisheries resources are important to both greenland and the eu and this annual agreement is hugely beneficial to both parties.
in writing. – we voted against because we oppose this standard eu agreement structure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of renewing the protocol, as the protocol provides important economic benefits to both parties and helps ensure coherence with eu fishing activities elsewhere in the region.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal. the main conclusion of a study into the existing agreement is that ‘it would be in the interest of both the eu and greenland to renew the protocol, the protocol provides important economic benefits to both parties, and helps ensure coherence with eu fishing activities elsewhere in the region’.
in writing. ‒ we voted against because we oppose this standard eu agreement structure.
in writing. ‒ we voted against because we oppose this standard eu agreement structure.
in writing. ‒ we voted against because we oppose this standard eu agreement structure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour in this consent procedure as it serves to maintain fishing opportunities for eu ships in the fishing zone of greenland’s exclusive economic zone (eez). but this arrangement serves as a warning to the uk if it leaves the eu, as although the uk will benefit from charging those using its eez, as greenland does today, the uk will also have to pay when in other eu members’ eezs. this benefit of being able to use the eez of other member states is used and is a great source of income for many of the uk’s fishers. a factor which makes more sense when you consider that, unlike greenland’s waters which are more self-contained, the eez of the uk is certainly not.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which is simply to replace the protocol that expired at the end of 2015 with a new protocol to allow eu vessels access to greenland’s exclusive economic zone.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has negotiated an agreement which will bring all member states’ bilateral air services agreements with macao into conformity with eu law. i voted against this report as the eu has no mandate to negotiate terms of bilateral agreements between countries on behalf of the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, the objective of which is to give all european union air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the european union and third countries, in this case the macao special administrative region of the people’s republic of china. this will bring the bilateral air service agreement between member states and this third country in line with the law of the union.
in writing. ‒ the objectives of agreements like this are to give all european union air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the european union and third countries, and to bring bilateral air service agreements between member states and third countries in line with the law of the union. today’s vote will allow for a helpful agreement on the development and regulation of air transport routes and so labour meps voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement, as its objectives are to give all eu air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the eu and third countries, and to bring bilateral air service agreements between member states and third countries in line with the law of the union.
in writing. ‒ international aviation relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements. the eu court of justice ruled in 2002 that traditional designation clauses in member states’ bilateral air services agreements infringe eu law. they allow a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the permissions or authorisations of an air carrier that has been designated by a member state but that is not substantially owned and effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. this has been found to constitute discrimination against eu carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. this is contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union which guarantees nationals of member states who have exercised their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host member state as that accorded to nationals of that member state. thus, the commission has negotiated the agreement that replaces certain provisions in the existing 15 bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people’s republic of china.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it will give all eu air-carriers access to routes between the eu and macao without discrimination. agreements like this are great for the eu's airline industry and bring bilateral air service agreements between member states and third countries in line with the law of the union, which has been developed by all of the member states - and therefore in line with all the values of the uk. today's vote will allow for a helpful agreement on the development and regulation of air transport routes.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. the objectives of such agreements are to give all european union air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the european union and third countries, and to bring bilateral air service agreements between member states and third countries in line with the law of the union. today’s vote will allow for a helpful agreement on the development and regulation of air transport routes.
in writing. ‒ this retrospectively extends the period to which minimum standard rates of vat apply; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – the background to this report is that the european parliament is being consulted on the extension of the current vat regime which expired on 31st of december last year. our party is opposed to minimum rates of tax rates being set by the eu as this fundamentally undermines a members state’s national sovereignty. a key point worth noting is that the vat action plan is seeking to abandon the origin principle (taxation where goods and services are produced) and replace it with a destination principle (taxation where goods and services are consumed). for consumers, the destination principle favours national production over imports as imports would in principle become more expensive. for export countries with a surplus on the current account balance, the origin principle is preferable. for deficit countries the destination principle is preferable. sinn féin would have a number of concerns in relation to these proposals, however, there are other aspects of the action plan, which we would be supportive of, such as member states being provided with greater scope for vat powers domestically, which seems to be one of the options on the table. therefore, on the basis of the action plan and the positive and negative provisions contained within the ep consultation report, we decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report retrospectively extends the period to which the minimum standard rate of vat applies to 31st december 2018. currently 1% of all vat collected in the united kingdom is creamed off the top by european union. the eu considers uk vat as an "own resource". i believe that member states should be able to set their own vat rates in line with their own requirements and individual economies. the european union and its vat regulations are putting small businesses in my constituency and all over the country out of business. businesses who want to trade with other eu countries must obtain a vat registration number (even if below the threshold for vat in the uk), travel through the minefield of whether they have any allowable expenditure that can be offset directly against non-uk sales and submit a cross-border vat refund application, complete a quarterly vat return and a quarterly vatmoss return. small businesses are sunk by the european union´s vat regulations and leave big business with a huge competitive advantage. british consumers pay extra every day for the added cost eu vat rules add to our everyday purchases.
in writing. – this retrospectively extends the period to which minimum standard rates of vat apply; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the value added tax directive will give clarity to vat payments within the internal market. by continuing to make tax requirements as simple as possible we will foster and encourage small and new business growth. for that reason, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the vat directive has played an important role in stimulating the eu’s single market since it was first introduced in 1993. unfortunately however, the latest proposal from the commission was published too late to allow for sufficient consultation. this report is therefore very much welcomed and has my full support. by confirming the agreement to prolong the application of the existing vat regime, this report allows enough time to consider the new vat regime as well as the additional flexibilities that have been proposed alongside it. initially, there were concerns over the continuation of the current 5% vat applied to sanitary products. this matter however was resolved during the march council meeting following the commission’s proposal to allow greater flexibility for member states by extending the number of zero rate vat products, which includes sanitary products. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal on the value added tax directive because it will give continued clarity over vat payments within the internal market. this is essential in order to create a clear system within which new and small businesses can excel. labour meps will engage with the commission’s forthcoming review of vat legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the extension of the period of application of the eu’s minimum standard rate of vat. nevertheless, the whole question of vat rates is going to be considered more fully by this house in the not-so-distant future. we must be take full account of the needs of europe’s citizens and should adapt the law where necessary. in this regard my party colleague alison thewliss mp has campaigned strongly for an end to the so called ‘tampon tax’, and i commend her work to the house.
in writing. – retrospectively extends the period to which minimum standard rates of vat apply; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the value added tax directive because it will give continued clarity over vat payments within the internal market. we need to continue to make tax requirements as simple as possible to encourage new and small businesses to flourish. labour meps will engage fully with the commission’s forthcoming review of vat legislation to make sure that any new vat regime reflects our values and priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal and look forward to the publication by the commission of an action plan for a simple, efficient and fraud-proof definitive system of value added tax tailored to the single market.
in writing. ‒ this retrospectively extends the period to which minimum standard rates of vat apply; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ retrospectively extends the period to which minimum standard rates of vat apply; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the vat directive because i believe that it will give the clarity over vat payments that we need and have been enjoying whilst members of the single market. we need to continue to make tax requirements as simple as possible to encourage new businesses to flourish. i, and my labour mep colleagues in this place, will fully engage with the forthcoming review of vat legislation from the commission to make sure that nay new vat regime reflects our values and priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the value added tax directive because it will give continued clarity over vat payments within the internal market. we need to continue to make tax requirements as simple as possible to encourage new and small businesses to flourish. labour meps will engage fully with the commission’s forthcoming review of vat legislation to make sure that any new vat regime reflects our values and priorities.
in writing. ‒ if the only certainties in life are death and taxes, it is possible taxes is the less popular of the two. yet tax is the glue that holds countries together. we need to continue to make tax requirements as simple as possible to encourage new and small businesses to flourish, it is important to make sure that businesses are clear on what they have to pay and how this will affect their prices. yet, this document also recognises that there needs to be a review of the greater flexibility that could be granted to member states in this area. we hope this procedure will allow members to adopt new rules, for instance on sanitary products. labour meps will engage fully with the commission's forthcoming review of vat legislation to make sure that any new vat regime reflects our values and priorities, this directive does not represent an end, but a beginning. tax is one of the key tools that we have to ensure that labour values and priorities are upheld, while equally ensuring that small companies and new businesses have a very clear route set before them on tax.
in writing. – we voted against this report. a new europol regulation with a novel and more thorough process for concluding these kinds of cooperation agreements has been agreed upon. therefore, there is no need to rush through such agreements last-minute. when legalisation does not come under the appropriate scrutiny, this leads to a whole host of problems in the future.
in writing. ‒ this was a procedural vote giving consent to the agreement between brazil and europol on strategic co-operation. in september 2015 €1.2 billion of taxpayers´ money was given to europol. i voted against this report as i do not believe that the european union should have its own unaccountable police agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it authorises europol (the european police office) to bring an agreement on strategic cooperation with brazil to a conclusion, which will aid the fight against international organised crime through the exchange of information, excluding personal data.
in writing. ‒ the council believes that brazil has an important role to play in the fight against organised crime and we vote on this report on the very day the brazilian congress has recommended an impeachment of that country’s president. the panama papers have however revealed that we do not have to look quite so far to find political leaders embroiled in dubious business in latin america. senior figures in the uk tory party have been implicated in shady dealings – and we should remember that impeachment is a tool available in european member states too.
in writing. ‒ i supported the strategic cooperation agreement with brazil, as it will aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and will contribute to enhancing international law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal for a new cooperation agreement between the european police office (europol) and brazil to crack down on organised crime and terrorism. europol says that brazil is increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime, including illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. it also has an eye on the 2016 olympic games, which, like other major sports events, could create opportunities for increased criminal activity.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to authorise europol - the european police office - to bring an agreement on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol to a conclusion, which may concern the exchange of operational, strategic or technical, or classified information, excluding personal data. this is something that i can support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this strategic cooperation agreement with brazil, which would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement cooperation. organised crime is a global problem, and so global cooperation is necessary if we are to tackle it successfully.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement cooperation with brazil. as a post graduate student of development i worked in brazil and learnt of the epidemic of street violence and the high level of murders amongst the young male population who too often get caught up in organised crime and gang warfare. this is the number one factor holding back the country from achieving its full potential and we in europe can help through our excellent europol agency run by british security expert rob wainwright.
in writing. ‒ hermann winkler is a german mep (cdu/epp). on 23 september 2015 he was a party to a serious road traffic accident. the german prosecutor seeks the lifting of his immunity so that the mep can become a subject of the investigation into the incident. there is no nexus to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances, our policy is to vote in favour of lifting his immunity.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency i would like to confirm i voted in favour of this report. hermann winkler is a german mep who was involved in a road traffic accident in september 2015. there is no nexus to his duties as an mep and his parliamentary immunity should be waived.
in writing. ‒ hermann winkler is a german mep (cdu/epp). on 23 september 2015 he was a party to a serious road traffic accident. the german prosecutor seeks the lifting of his immunity so that the mep can become a subject of the investigation into the incident. there is no nexus to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances our policy is to vote in favour of lifting his immunity.
in writing. – hermann winkler is a german mep (cdu/epp). on 23 september 2015 he was a party to a serious road traffic accident. the german prosecutor seeks the lifting of his immunity so that the mep can become a subject of the investigation into the incident. there is no nexus to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances our policy is to vote in favour of lifting his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported waiving the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler, so that he can be investigated in accordance with german law.
in writing. – hermann winkler is a german mep (cdu/epp). on 23 september 2015 he was a party to a serious road traffic accident. the german prosecutor seeks the lifting of his immunity so that the mep can become a subject of the investigation into the incident. there is no nexus to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances our policy is to vote in favour of lifting his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the removal of the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler.
in writing. ‒ hermann winkler is a german mep (cdu/epp). on 23 september 2015 he was a party to a serious road traffic accident. the german prosecutor seeks the lifting of his immunity so that the mep can become a subject of the investigation into the incident. there is no nexus to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances our policy is to vote in favour of lifting his immunity.
in writing. ‒ hermann winkler is a german mep (cdu/epp). on 23 september 2015 he was a party to a serious road traffic accident. the german prosecutor seeks the lifting of his immunity so that the mep can become a subject of the investigation into the incident. there is no nexus to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances our policy is to vote in favour of lifting his immunity.
in writing. ‒ hermann winkler is a german mep (cdu/epp). on 23 september 2015 he was a party to a serious road traffic accident. the german prosecutor seeks the lifting of his immunity so that the mep can become a subject of the investigation into the incident. there is no nexus to his duties as an mep. in those circumstances our policy is to vote in favour of lifting his immunity.
in writing. ‒ according to german basic law, a member may not be called to account for a punishable offence without the permission of parliament unless apprehended while committing the offence. the public prosecutor has requested the wavering of hermann winkler’s immunity in connection with a preliminary investigation concerning a traffic accident.
mr president, i have just one thing to say. in years of watching hypocrisy and double standards in this house, i have not come across anything that matches the complaints about what we found out in the panama tax returns, coming from bureaucrats and meps who are exempt from national taxation. this really is a new level of utter hypocrisy from this chamber.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained because unclos needs general recognition even when we dispute the eu’s claim to competence.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report. this was a non-controversial file, where all of the meps voted in favour of this report in the committee. the background of the report is based on recommendations made to the un general assembly in 2015 regarding the creation of a legally-binding instrument which would come under the auspices of the ‘united nations convention on the law of the sea’ which seeks to promote the conservation of marine biodiversity and sustainable usage of marine resources, it also acknowledges the negative impact that the rapid growth and expansion of marine activities (industrial fishing, marine drilling, shipping, etc.) on the marine environment across the globe. two important provisions were contained within the report: 64% of the sea consists of areas beyond national jurisdiction. these unchartered waters should be have stronger legal protections under international law, inclusion of measures which should insure accountability for parties participating in marine activities. therefore, on the grounds outlined above, we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to further eu regulation being forced upon uk fishermen. however part of this report binds the eu into accepting the law of the sea. it officially makes the eu recognise and comply with international fisheries law. i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because unclos needs general recognition even when we dispute the eu’s claim to competence.
in writing. – we abstained because unclos needs general recognition even when we dispute the eu’s claim to competence.
in writing. ‒ in waters outside of national jurisdictions, or the ‘high seas,’ the united nations (un) is responsible for environmental sustainability and conservation through two international agreements, one of which – the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos) – is an international, legally-binding framework. the european parliament own initiative report which was voted on in plenary reacts positively to the unclos and welcomes this framework as a means to address the challenges of protecting the ecosystems of the high seas. illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, mineral exploitation and energy drilling, and pollution and marine litter are all damaging marine habitats and ecosystems. the eu has an important position in securing the sustainable management of marine resources in the high seas. this is reflected in the report’s call for the commission to work closely with interested parties and support the unclos framework. i voted in favour of this report as i hope that demonstrating support for the unclos will help find international solutions for this environmental degradation and demonstrate the eu’s commitment to global environmental issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as while there is considerable potential for jobs and growth in the marine sector, it is also one that requires protection and balance in terms of working within the sector’s ecological capacities.
in writing. ‒ the united nations convention on the law of the sea pre-dates many recent technological innovations in global fisheries and it is important that the law keeps up with these developments. i therefore was happy to support this text.
in writing. – we abstained because unclos needs general recognition even when we dispute the eu’s claim to competence.
in writing. ‒ the un addressed the importance of protecting the waters of the world in the paper that was published as a result of the rio de janeiro, brazil, un conference on environment & development that took place on 3-14 june 1992, called agenda 21. this showed that the international community was acknowledging the necessity of an international approach in order to manage pollution and increasing dangers to marine biodiversity. this was followed by the johannesburg declaration on sustainable development and the plan of implementation which were agreed upon during the un world summit in south africa, on 2-4 september 2002. in 2012, in the document published as a result of the latest un conference on sustainable development held in rio de janeiro, called rio+20 as a link to the first rio agenda, the international community restated its determination in tackling the environmental problems and the need for sustainable development. this shows that although the un and all those who are part of these declarations and agreements commit themselves to these objectives, they need to adapt their plans and priorities to a fast developing world, with activities being diversified and multiplied every single year.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because unclos needs general recognition even when we dispute the eu’s claim to competence.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because unclos needs general recognition even when we dispute the eu’s claim to competence.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because unclos needs general recognition even when we dispute the eu’s claim to competence.
in writing. ‒ the 'blue growth' is one of the main priorities of my group, and i voted in favour of this report because i agree that it should be a major priority; over the past decade human activities in the sea have increased dramatically. while the potential for growth and jobs in this sector is enormous, it should be used within the ecological limits of the marine environment. it is important therefore that fishing be integrated into this vision of the future of the sea that is 'blue growth' and hence i supported this ini report today.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which promotes good governance and conservation in areas beyond jurisdiction, in order to ensure the conservation of the high seas.
in writing. ‒ we voted against because this goes far beyond consolidation to create a harmonised structure of animal breeding.
in writing. – this technical file deals with rules regarding the structuring of the breeding sector, management of breeding books/registers, intra-eu trade, and imports from third countries. at committee level, the report was broadened to also cover conservation of rare breeds, thereby protecting biodiversity. at eu level the intention is to harmonise the approach to trade in breeding animals. it was for these reasons that we voted in favour of this file.
in writing. ‒ we voted against because this goes far beyond consolidation to create a harmonised structure of animal breeding.
in writing. – we voted against because this goes far beyond consolidation to create a harmonised structure of animal breeding.
in writing. ‒ the uk is a major exporter of animal genetic material and germinal products so having legislation that supports trade in this industry is crucial. i am pleased that this is what has been achieved in the ‘breeding animals and their germinal products’ regulation. it facilitates free trade in animal breeding while preserving valuable animal genetic resources including rare and endangered breeds. the legislation also reflects the ‘better regulation’ policy, something which i fully support. it substantially streamlines and consolidates four existing pieces of eu legislation. it means that uk breeders and exporters of genetic material operating within the single market will have less burdensome bureaucracy. important changes to the text have effectively tackled problematic elements, for example the parliament secured the inclusion of special rules and derogations (exceptional circumstances only) to allow for the separation of horse breeding information from the equine identification document (horse passport). additionally, ecr amendments ensured the legislation is in line with uk objectives, for example regarding the setting of common rules on performance testing and genetic evaluation, by building flexibility into the final text. it is for these reasons that i voted to adopt this legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal; the breeding of livestock, particularly of animals with a high level of genetic particularity, not only contributes to the economic and social development of the rural areas where it takes place, but is also one of the pillars on which the eu’s food security is based. on top of that, the new draft regulation delivers the necessary consolidation and simplification of existing laws, completes the single market while reaffirming member states’ competences where appropriate and clarifies the rights and obligations of animal breeders and their organisations.
in writing. – we voted against because this goes far beyond consolidation to create a harmonised structure of animal breeding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal. the breeding of livestock, particularly of animals with a high level of genetic particularity, not only contributes to the economic and social development of the rural areas where it takes place, but is also one of the pillars on which the eu’s food security is based. on top of that, the new draft regulation delivers the necessary consolidation and simplification of existing laws, completes the single market while reaffirming member states’ competences where appropriate and clarifies the rights and obligations of animal breeders and their organisations.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal. animal health and welfare, including transport conditions for live animals, are concerns that need to be taken into account by all actors in the zootechnical sector, in particular with regard to the genetic improvement of breeds. the commission should therefore ensure that those concerns are duly taken into account in the delegated and implementing acts that are to be adopted for the effective implementation of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the breeding of livestock, particularly of animals with a high level of genetic particularity, not only contributes to the economic and social development of the rural areas where it takes place, but is also one of the pillars on which the eu’s food security is based. on top of that, the new draft regulation delivers the necessary consolidation and simplification of existing laws, completes the single market while reaffirming member states’ competences where appropriate and clarifies the rights and obligations of animal breeders and their organisations.
in writing. ‒ we voted against because this goes far beyond consolidation to create a harmonised structure of animal breeding.
in writing. ‒ we voted against because this goes far beyond consolidation to create a harmonised structure of animal breeding.
in writing. ‒ we voted against because this goes far beyond consolidation to create a harmonised structure of animal breeding.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, along with my labour colleagues because i believe that the breeding of livestock, particularly of animals with a high level of genetic particularity, not only contributes to the economic and social development of the rural areas where it takes place, but it is also one of the pillars on which the eu's food security is based. on top of that, the new draft regulation delivers necessary consolidation and simplification of existing laws, clarifies the rights and obligations of animal breeders and their organisations as well as contributes towards the completion of the single market while reaffirming member states' competences where appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. the breeding of livestock – particularly of animals with a high level of genetic particularity – not only contributes to the economic and social development of the rural areas where it takes place, but is also one of the pillars on which the eu’s food security is based. on top of that, the new draft regulation delivers necessary consolidation and simplification of existing laws, completes the single market while reaffirming member states’ competences where appropriate and clarifies the rights and obligations of animal breeders and their organisations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the breeding of livestock, particularly of animals with a high level of genetic particularity, not only contributes to the economic and social development of the rural areas where it takes place, but is also one of the pillars on which the eu’s food security is based. additionally, the new draft regulation delivers necessary consolidation and simplification of existing laws, completes the single market while reaffirming member states’ competences where appropriate and clarifies the rights and obligations of animal breeders and their organisations.
mr president, the situation in the mediterranean is indeed dire. for those millions of people who are suffering because they are leaving the areas of syria and afghanistan where war and deprivation is affecting them, that is clear. but once again we have a failed eu policy that will have an impact on the united kingdom. the eu’s policy here today has rejected the idea that open borders, including schengen, have been a major problem. they have rejected the idea that angela merkel’s open welcome has caused millions of people to feel that they should come to the eu and they have rejected the idea that australia’s solutions have meant fewer people dying. but what they have decided to say, in taking this one bull by the horns, is that there is a real need for a permanent mandatory union-wide resettlement programme with mandatory control and distribution across the european union. if britain wants to avoid this in the future, it must vote to leave the european union on 23 june. otherwise it will also be dragged in.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against this non-legislative report and we have tabled rcvs for particular areas of the report in which we strongly disagree with the text. in particular, ukip believes that national sovereign governments should have the right to control their own borders and should not be forced to take migrants under an eu resettlement scheme. similarly, we are also concerned with segments of the report which suggest that the eu should create rules governing the entry and residence of third country nationals. ukip has, however, supported aspects of the report which criticise the schengen area as a facilitator and accelerator of both the migrant crisis and the movement of terrorists within europe.
in writing. ‒ this report concedes that the open border policy of the eu is an incentive for migrants to make the dangerous attempt to cross the mediterranean. i voted in favour of amendments suggesting that the abolition of internal borders has contributed to the ‘free passage of isis’ and criticising the eu list of ‘safe countries’ for refugees. i voted against the aspects of the report requiring the ‘need for a permanent union-wide resettlement programme’ with mandatory participation from member states. as a whole the report ‘considers the schengen area as one of the major achievements of european integration’. i wholeheartedly object to this view and therefore voted against this report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against this non-legislative report and we have tabled rcvs for particular areas of the report in which we strongly disagree with the text. in particular, ukip believes that national sovereign governments should have the right to control their own borders and should not be forced to take migrants under an eu resettlement scheme. similarly, we are also concerned with segments of the report which suggest that the eu should create rules governing the entry and residence of third country nationals. ukip has, however, supported aspects of the report which criticise the schengen area as a facilitator and accelerator of both the migrant crisis and the movement of terrorists within europe.
in writing. – ukip has voted against this non-legislative report and we have tabled rcvs for particular areas of the report in which we strongly disagree with the text. in particular, ukip believes that national sovereign governments should have the right to control their own borders and should not be forced to take migrants under an eu resettlement scheme. similarly, we are also concerned with segments of the report which suggest that the eu should create rules governing the entry and residence of third country nationals. ukip has, however, supported aspects of the report which criticise the schengen area as a facilitator and accelerator of both the migrant crisis and the movement of terrorists within europe.
in writing. ‒ i oppose both this report and its proposal for a compulsory eu—wide system for the relocation of refugees, member states and national governments are best placed to set their own immigration policy and relocation and resettlement of refugees should be done on a voluntary basis only. we should focus much more on enhancing external border controls to tackle the migration crisis, as well as increasing the efficiency of returns and readmission of failed asylum seekers. much more can also be done on combatting human trafficking and increasing the implementation of existing rules and preventing secondary movement of asylum seekers, only with a multi-front approach can we deal with the current ongoing crisis.
in writing. ‒ in an attempt to find consensus, the co-rapporteurs produced a report that not only lacked any real ambition, but was also without clear proposals on how to tackle the migrant crisis. the priorities of the uk conservative delegation, as well as the ecr group more broadly, were also not properly considered and as a result, were left out of the final version of the text. instead of focusing on issues such as enhancing border controls, combatting human trafficking and resettlement, the report emphasised the importance of a compulsory eu wide system and measures that would directly interfere with national immigration policy. the report’s policy recommendations did not therefore offer a sensible or sustainable solution to the current crisis europe is facing. i firmly believe that member states are best placed to set their own national immigration policy and that offering relocation and resettlement of refugees should be done on a voluntary basis. opting in to eu legislation in this area should only occur when there is clear added value to the uk’s immigration system and the british people. on this occasion, i do not believe this was the case. it is for these reasons that i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to ensure a compassionate and organised response to the biggest refugee crisis since the second world war. europe urgently needs to take a global approach to migration based on the principle of solidarity between states. member states urgently need to uphold their responsibilities and show solidarity with countries on the periphery such as greece and italy by offering humanitarian assistance, quickly implementing the relocation agreement and working together to enhance safer and legal routes to europe.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour colleagues, i voted in favour of this report which gives key recommendations to the commission as well as member states to ensure a compassionate and organised response to the refugee situation. europe urgently needs to take a global approach to migration based on the principle of solidarity between states. member states urgently need to uphold their responsibilities and show solidarity with countries on the periphery such as greece and italy by offering humanitarian assistance, quickly implementing the relocation agreement and working together to enhance safer and legal routes to europe.
in writing. ‒ the current situation in the mediterranean is a human tragedy of unprecedented proportions. it is essential that the eu takes an affirmative and holistic approach to this grave situation and i believe that this report was well balanced and fair.
in writing. – ukip has voted against this non-legislative report and we have tabled rcv for particular areas of the report in which we strongly disagree with the text. in particular, ukip believes that national sovereign governments should have the right to control their own borders and should not be forced to take migrants under an eu resettlement scheme. similarly, we are also concerned with segments of the report which suggest that the eu should create rules governing the entry and residence of third country nationals. ukip has, however, supported aspects of the report which criticise the schengen area as a facilitator and accelerator of both the migrant crisis and the movement of terrorists within europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which gives key recommendations to the commission as well as member states to ensure a compassionate and organised response to the biggest refugee crisis since the second world war. europe urgently needs to take a global approach to migration based on the principle of solidarity between states. member states urgently need to uphold their responsibilities and show solidarity with countries on the periphery such as greece and italy by offering humanitarian assistance, quickly implementing the relocation agreement and working together to enhance safer and legal routes to europe.
in writing. ‒ our approach to the migration situation in the mediterranean must start from the premise that saving lives must be a first priority and that proper funding, at union and member state level, for search and rescue operations is essential. we must sadly note that there has been an increase in the number of irregular arrivals by sea and an alarming increase in the number of deaths at sea, and that a better european response is still required
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which gives key recommendations to the commission as well as member states to ensure a compassionate and organised response to the biggest refugee crisis since the second world war. europe urgently needs to take a global approach to migration based on the principle of solidarity between states. member states urgently need to uphold their responsibilities and show solidarity with countries on the periphery such as greece and italy by offering humanitarian assistance, quickly implementing the relocation agreement and working together to enhance safer and legal routes to europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against this non-legislative report and we have tabled rcvs for particular areas of the report in which we strongly disagree with the text. in particular, ukip believes that national sovereign governments should have the right to control their own borders and should not be forced to take migrants under an eu resettlement scheme. similarly, we are also concerned with segments of the report which suggest that the eu should create rules governing the entry and residence of third country nationals. ukip has, however, supported aspects of the report which criticise the schengen area as a facilitator and accelerator of both the migrant crisis and the movement of terrorists within europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against this non-legislative report and we have tabled rcv for particular areas of the report in which we strongly disagree with the text. in particular, ukip believes that national sovereign governments should have the right to control their own borders and should not be forced to take migrants under an eu resettlement scheme. similarly, we are also concerned with segments of the report which suggest that the eu should create rules governing the entry and residence of third country nationals. ukip has, however, supported aspects of the report which criticise the schengen area as a facilitator and accelerator of both the migrant crisis and the movement of terrorists within europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against this non-legislative report and we have tabled rcvs for particular areas of the report in which we strongly disagree with the text. in particular, ukip believes that national sovereign governments should have the right to control their own borders and should not be forced to take migrants under an eu resettlement scheme. similarly, we are also concerned with segments of the report which suggest that the eu should create rules governing the entry and residence of third country nationals. ukip has, however, supported aspects of the report which criticise the schengen area as a facilitator and accelerator of both the migrant crisis and the movement of terrorists within europe.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report because it is giving clear, key recommendations to the commission as to how we are going to ensure a compassionate and organised response to the biggest refugee crisis that we have faced since the second world war. it goes further and calls on the member states to commit action to the cause and respond to this urgent need to take a global approach to migration based on the principle of solidarity between states. the member states of the eu urgently, urgently need to uphold their responsibilities, show solidarity with our brothers and sisters across europe and offer humanitarian assistance. by working together we can quickly implement the relocation agreement, as this report calls for, and enhance safer and more legal routes to safety.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report which gives key recommendations to the commission as well as member states to ensure a compassionate and organised response to the biggest refugee crisis since the second world war. europe urgently needs to take a global approach to migration based on the principle of solidarity between states. member states urgently need to uphold their responsibilities and show solidarity with countries on the periphery such as greece and italy by offering humanitarian assistance, quickly implementing the relocation agreement and working together to enhance safer and legal routes to europe.
in writing. ‒ it is universally acknowledged that at the moment we face the biggest refugee crisis in europe since the end of the second world war. the seemingly unending bloodshed in syria, as well as global issues of poverty and climate change have brought us face-to-face with a very real challenge. we cannot afford to sit idly by and ignore this problem. i therefore voted in favour of this report, for reasons that i will outline below. this is not just a european problem, this is a global problem but one that can have a european solution if we have the courage to act on the impeccably labour principle of solidarity, solidarity between people and solidarity between countries. member states urgently need to uphold their responsibilities and show solidarity with countries on the periphery such as greece and italy by offering humanitarian assistance and quickly implementing the relocation agreement as well as working together to enhance safer and legal routes to europe. if the only routes into europe are the illegal ones, then people will take them in ever greater numbers. we cannot morally afford to see more drowned children, or leave peripheral member states with a burden that they cannot hope to shoulder alone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which gives key recommendations to the commission as well as member states to ensure a compassionate and organised response to the biggest refugee crisis since the second world war. the refugee crisis has shown that the current eu approach to migration is not sustainable. we need to have a complete rethink in order to create a system that is fit for the 21st century. this report outlines the european parliament's vision of what that could look like. europe urgently needs to take a global approach to migration based on the principle of solidarity. member states urgently need to uphold their responsibilities and show solidarity with countries on the periphery, such as greece and italy, by offering humanitarian assistance, quickly implementing the relocation agreement and working together to enhance safer and legal routes to europe. we also need to ensure that the voices of migrants and refugees are heard and in that respect i was pleased to attend the recent parliamentary screening of jakob brossman’s award-winning film ‘lampedusa in winter’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives key recommendations to the commission as well as member states to ensure a compassionate and organised response to the biggest refugee crisis since the second world war. member countries urgently need to uphold their responsibilities and show solidarity with countries on the periphery such as greece and italy by offering humanitarian assistance, quickly implementing the relocation agreement and working together to enhance safer and legal routes to europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the karim report today. as a matter of principle we cannot support a report which endorses the current legislative system under the treaties. ukip is opposed to any system which gives the eu the right to impose legislation on the uk and of any concomitant system of giving national parliaments permission to legislate on some issues, a system which is the very negation of parliamentary sovereignty. ‘subsidiarity and proportionality’ are weasel words intended to convey the sense that the eu is not a monolithic, all-pervading entity and that the ability of member states to legislate has somehow been left intact by the treaties. in reality the concept makes no difference whatsoever to the nature and extent of the ‘competences’ of the eu and the vast areas of policy over which the eu an effective monopoly in its ability to legislate. the eu’s power of legislation remains intact.
in writing. – we abstained on this report as while the objectives and intentions on this report were very positive; any positive provisions were undone by a negative agenda running throughout the text. let us be clear, there is no party more committed to protecting irish sovereignty than sinn féin. in our role as an mep in the european parliament, we are continuously seeking to ensure that the interests of the irish people are placed at the forefront of any eu policy. it goes without saying that principle of subsidiarity must represent the starting point for policy formulation. however, the negative provisions in relation to eu trade policy and the isds, means that we were left in no position but to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on subsidiarity and proportionality from 2012/13 is now over three years out of date. it has no value being discussed in the chamber today. notionally article 5 teu is supposed to invite consideration of whether an eu competence is necessary or whether the proposed action could properly and effectively be carried out at member state level. the unelected european commission has no desire to allow member states any say in the subsidiarity and proportionality of new laws. the power-hungry bureaucrats have only one desire, to see national parliaments’ independence sacrificed into that of a superstate.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the karim report today. as a matter of principle we cannot support a report which endorses the current legislative system under the treaties. ukip is opposed to any system which gives the eu the right to impose legislation on the uk and of any concomitant system of giving national parliaments permission to legislate on some issues, a system which is the very negation of parliamentary sovereignty. ‘subsidiarity and proportionality’ are weasel words intended to convey the sense that the eu is not a monolithic, all-pervading entity and that the ability of member states to legislate has somehow been left intact by the treaties. in reality the concept makes no difference whatsoever to the nature and extent of the ‘competences’ of the eu and the vast areas of policy over which the eu an effective monopoly in its ability to legislate. the eu’s power of legislation remains intact.
in writing. – ukip voted against the karim report today. as a matter of principle we cannot support a report which endorses the current legislative system under the treaties. ukip is opposed to any system which gives the eu the right to impose legislation on the uk and of any concomitant system of giving national parliaments permission to legislate on some issues, a system which is the very negation of parliamentary sovereignty. ‘subsidiarity and proportionality’ are weasel words intended to convey the sense that the eu is not a monolithic, all-pervading entity and that the ability of member states to legislate has somehow been left intact by the treaties. in reality the concept makes no difference whatsoever to the nature and extent of the ‘competences’ of the eu and the vast areas of policy over which the eu an effective monopoly in its ability to legislate. the eu’s power of legislation remains intact.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report from my colleague mr karim, in particular its emphasis on strengthening national parliaments’ role in the eu legislative process, which is an important tool in improving the quality of legislation. similarly positive is its emphasis on the need for the commission to provide serious and detailed feedback when the compliance with subsidiarity of a piece of legislation is questioned by national parliaments. the report’s proposal not only for a subsidiarity check but also a full impact assessment to be undertaken at the conclusion of legislative negotiations is also important to ensure that the final legislation, which we all know can change substantially from the original proposals, complies with subsidiarity and proportionality. better legislation should be the result of these reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that emphasised the importance of the principle of subsidiarity in the development of eu law and policy. this core eu principle should be central to wales’ relationship with the eu but the uk government interprets subsidiarity as operating between the eu and uk government levels only. it is important that decisions are made at the most appropriate level so this principle must be built upon to include people at all levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of sajjad karim’s report because it supports subsidiarity by giving national parliaments greater influence in the eu legislative process. my conservative colleagues and i remain strongly committed to leading the way in reducing the eu’s democratic deficit.
in writing. ‒ i am strong believer in the principle of subsidiarity and thus firmly welcome this report. by stressing the importance of both subsidiarity and proportionality, as well as a stronger involvement of national parliaments in the eu legislative process, this report does much to enhance the democratic functionality of the eu. many have expressed concern over the perceived democratic deficit of the eu. however with greater consideration of suggestions made by national parliaments, extended periods for consultation in addition to more comprehensive dialogue between the european commission and national parliaments, transparency and more effective oversight of the eu’s legislative process can be achieved. subsidiarity checks and full impact assessments to be taken at the conclusion of the legislative negotiations and in advance of the adoption of a final text will also reinforce and clarify the division of powers between the eu and national level, minimising any competence creep and interference in areas which are better left to the national level. such measures will ensure that all policies made are representative and reactive to the needs of all eu citizens. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it recognises labour’s belief that national parliaments need a stronger role in eu legislation, this will enable national parliaments to submit amendments to the commission for consideration as well as enabling better communication between national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support a greater role for national parliaments, including enabling better and earlier communication between parliaments, and parliaments being able to submit proposals or amendments for the european commission’s consideration. we also support the report’s proposals for mid-term and full-term evaluations of the legislative process, full impact assessments and more regular checks to ensure the principle of subsidiarity is adhered to – that decisions are taken at the most local, least centralised level of governance. labour meps support an eu which takes into account the views and needs of its citizens and national parliaments, ensures legislation is adopted at the most appropriate level, and is subject to regular, ongoing review of its legislative process.
in writing. ‒ as a labour euro mp, i fully support the provisions for a greater role for national parliaments in eu decision-making. i have always seen the european parliament as a democratic partner to our national parliamentary colleagues. it is our job to hold the european commission and the presidency of the european council to account, the role of national parliaments to hold to account positions proposed and taken by national governments in the council of ministers. if we both do our jobs – and collaborate together in doing so – there is better democratic scrutiny for the european union as a whole. the proposal for an enhanced ‘warning card’ system for national parliaments to have greater opportunity for national parliaments to intervene earlier on pending eu legislation where there is a concern about subsidiarity, was first proposed by the british labour party and only subsequently adopted by our conservative colleagues. all of us who say europe needs reform but that britain is better off in a reformed european union, should support these proposals. the benefit in the end is for our citizens, increasing democracy and ensuring that legislation is adopted at the level which is closest to the people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. subsidiarity is a fundamental part of the eu, as set out in the treaty of lisbon. this house has nothing to fear from it or indeed from impact assessments into the work of the eu. the eu must be properly engaged with its citizens and subsidiarity is a key element of that engagement.
in writing. – ukip voted against the karim report today. as a matter of principle we cannot support a report which endorses the current legislative system under the treaties. ukip is opposed to any system which gives the eu the right to impose legislation on the uk and of any concomitant system of giving national parliaments permission to legislate on some issues, a system which is the very negation of parliamentary sovereignty. ‘subsidiarity and proportionality’ are weasel words intended to convey the sense that the eu is not a monolithic, all-pervading entity and that the ability of member states to legislate has somehow been left intact by the treaties. in reality the concept makes no difference whatsoever to the nature and extent of the ‘competences’ of the eu and the vast areas of policy over which the eu an effective monopoly in its ability to legislate. the eu’s power of legislation remains intact.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report, as it calls for reform of the european union’s law-making procedures, including a greater role for national parliaments, and regular reviews of the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the closer participation and stronger involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process in recent years, which has resulted in an increased awareness of the principles on which the eu is founded, including the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the inter institutional context; notes, however, that further work still needs to be done in this context; suggests as a first step that the commission engage in a yearly debate with each of the national parliaments in order to strengthen the dialogue between the commission and the national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which supports a greater role for national parliaments, including enabling better and earlier communication between parliaments, and parliaments being able to submit proposals or amendments for the european commission’s consideration.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the karim report today. as a matter of principle we cannot support a report which endorses the current legislative system under the treaties. ukip is opposed to any system which gives the eu the right to impose legislation on the uk and of any concomitant system of giving national parliaments permission to legislate on some issues, a system which is the very negation of parliamentary sovereignty. ‘subsidiarity and proportionality’ are weasel words intended to convey the sense that the eu is not a monolithic, all-pervading entity and that the ability of member states to legislate has somehow been left intact by the treaties. in reality the concept makes no difference whatsoever to the nature and extent of the ‘competences’ of the eu and the vast areas of policy over which the eu an effective monopoly in its ability to legislate. the eu’s power of legislation remains intact.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the karim report today. as a matter of principle we cannot support a report which endorses the current legislative system under the treaties. ukip is opposed to any system which gives the eu the right to impose legislation on the uk and of any concomitant system of giving national parliaments permission to legislate on some issues, a system which is the very negation of parliamentary sovereignty. ‘subsidiarity and proportionality’ are weasel words intended to convey the sense that the eu is not a monolithic, all-pervading entity and that the ability of member states to legislate has somehow been left intact by the treaties. in reality the concept makes no difference whatsoever to the nature and extent of the ‘competences’ of the eu and the vast areas of policy over which the eu an effective monopoly in its ability to legislate. the eu’s power of legislation remains intact.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the karim report today. as a matter of principle we cannot support a report which endorses the current legislative system under the treaties. ukip is opposed to any system which gives the eu the right to impose legislation on the uk and of any concomitant system of giving national parliaments permission to legislate on some issues, a system which is the very negation of parliamentary sovereignty. ‘subsidiarity and proportionality’ are weasel words intended to convey the sense that the eu is not a monolithic, all-pervading entity and that the ability of member states to legislate has somehow been left intact by the treaties. in reality the concept makes no difference whatsoever to the nature and extent of the ‘competences’ of the eu and the vast areas of policy over which the eu an effective monopoly in its ability to legislate. the eu’s power of legislation remains intact.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on these important principles in the european union because it reinforces labour’s backing of an eu that takes into account the views and needs of its citizens and their national parliaments. this increases democratic quality and closes the deficit of democracy in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i advocate an eu which takes into account the views and needs of its citizens and national parliaments, increasing democracy and closing the ‘democratic deficit’, as well as ensuring that legislation is adopted at the most appropriate level to be most effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i fully support its calls for greater respect for national parliaments, and subsidiarity and proportionality, in the eu legislative process.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the kaufmann report today. as a matter of principle we do not support and will not vote for any report which accepts the right of the eu to make the laws of the united kingdom, however virtuous the proposals seem in isolation. the report makes it clear that, in whatever form, the process of legislation is going to continue. its only virtue is that it impliedly damns the method of legislation that has pertained over the last sixty-odd years and which has so damaged the fabric of british trade, manufacturing and business since our entry into the then eec in 1973 by burdensome and anti-competitive legislation. sadly, the damage – vast damage – has already been done and is ongoing. only by returning all legislative power to a newly-liberated uk parliament with all its sovereignty restored, can the legislative process be made relevant to uk interests and legislators fully accountable to the people.
in writing. – i voted against this report which concealed its real agenda under terms such as ‘administrative burdens’ or ‘regulatory burdens’ these are codes for an economy of low-pay, long-hours, non-unionised, de-regulated, two-tier, universal labour with the very barest minimum of social welfare support and privatised public services. the discussion around lifting administrative burden for smes is something of a red herring: the extension of the better regulation agenda is biased towards deregulation and will be used to justify lower standards for eu workers (including those in smes). refit is linked to 'better law-making' and it is primarily concerned with de regulation. it is being concealed under the cover of efficiency but the agenda is very much related to financial de regulation. moreover, important initiatives such as maternity leave, cancer protection at the work place, etc. have already been blocked by eu-commission with reference to refit. better regulation was also major part of the brexit deal to promise the uk an even more market liberal european union and it also seems to play a role in the ttip negotiations.
in writing. ‒ after 60 years of imposing thousands of pages of onerous and anti-competitive legislation, the eu has become vaguely aware that the member states are being regulated to death. in addition, they have also realised that brussels is not popular and this report on ‘better’ law making is more propaganda from the european commission. i am opposed to each and every part of the european legislative process. i believe good legislation can only originate in the uk, be designed and debated in the uk and democratically amended and passed throughout the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the kaufmann report today. as a matter of principle we do not support and will not vote for any report which accepts the right of the eu to make the laws of the united kingdom, however virtuous the proposals seem in isolation. the report makes it clear that, in whatever form, the process of legislation is going to continue. its only virtue is that it impliedly damns the method of legislation that has pertained over the last sixty-odd years and which has so damaged the fabric of british trade, manufacturing and business since our entry into the then eec in 1973 by burdensome and anti-competitive legislation. sadly, the damage – vast damage – has already been done and is ongoing. only by returning all legislative power to a newly-liberated uk parliament with all its sovereignty restored, can the legislative process be made relevant to uk interests and legislators fully accountable to the people.
in writing. – ukip voted against the kaufman report today. as a matter of principle we do not support and will not vote for any report which accepts the right of the eu to make the laws of the united kingdom, however virtuous the proposals seem in isolation. the report makes it clear that, in whatever form, the process of legislation is going to continue. its only virtue is that it impliedly damns the method of legislation that has pertained over the last sixty-odd years and which has so damaged the fabric of british trade, manufacturing and business since our entry into the then eec in 1973 by burdensome and anti-competitive legislation. sadly, the damage – vast damage – has already been done and is ongoing. only by returning all legislative power to a newly-liberated uk parliament with all its sovereignty restored, can the legislative process be made relevant to uk interests and legislators fully accountable to the people.
in writing. ‒ on balance i support this report, especially its proposals for ex-post evaluations of eu legislation by national parliaments and flexible rules for smes and exemptions for microbusinesses from excessive red tape. however, i would have liked to see a burden reduction target included in the report; it is all very well talking about reducing the administrative burden for smes, but we need concrete progress on achieving positive change in that area.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the regulatory fitness and performance programme as i was concerned by the language in the report, which is unclear and does not properly distinguish between regulatory and administrative burdens. we should of course look to cut red tape wherever possible, and it is vital to my constituents in wales that practices are efficient, transparent and accountable, but the deregulation agenda lobbied by business interests puts the well—being of people and the environment at risk.
in writing. ‒ this report represents an important step towards better regulation in the european union. simpler regulation that reduces the regulatory burden on member states and businesses is a welcome change. in addition, there is consideration for subsidiarity and proportionality principles, another key aspect of better regulation and a principle that i think it crucial to respect. crucially, the report takes into consideration the needs of small businesses. small and medium enterprises (smes) play a key role in growth and job creation in britain and in the south—west, but their competitiveness can be restricted by burdensome european regulations. this report represents progress towards reducing these burdens. important ecr amendments concerning competitiveness have been adopted and the report introduces a general rule that proposals with a negative impact on competitiveness should not be adopted by the commission. this, along with the emphasis placed on the commission committing to reducing the administrative burden on smes and the inclusion of exemptions for microbusinesses, will be beneficial for productivity of british industries. it is for these reasons that i chose to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the refit programme aims to cut red-tape, remove regulatory burdens, and simplify and improve the design and quality of eu legislation. under refit, the commission is screening the entire stock of eu legislation on an ongoing and systematic basis to identify burdens, inconsistencies, ineffective measures and identified corrective actions.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme has the proper aim of cutting unnecessary red tape and administrative burden, to promote more effective and appropriate regulation. today’s vote demonstrates that those of us who argue for fair regulation do not do so for its own sake, but where there is clear benefit for the people we represent. in this report, we call for the protection of workers' rights and secure the role of social dialogue and social partner agreements. we reiterate the importance of consumer, environmental, social, health and safety standards. we support more flexible rules for smes, but only if the internal market and ensuring social, ecological and economic objectives are not undermined. we support ‘review clauses’ to regularly reassess legislative measures but deliberately avoided a crude and arbitrary ‘one in, one out’ rule. the report maintains the role of parliamentary oversight. finally our resolution recognises that four members of the high level group of independent stakeholders – associations of professionals, environmental, consumer and health representatives – issued a dissenting opinion that there should be a better understanding of the case for appropriate regulation. our aim should be to lift burdens not just for some, but for all.
in writing. – ukip voted against the kaufmann report today. as a matter of principle we do not support and will not vote for any report which accepts the right of the eu to make the laws of the united kingdom, however virtuous the proposals seem in isolation. the report makes it clear that, in whatever form, the process of legislation is going to continue. its only virtue is that it impliedly damns the method of legislation that has pertained over the last sixty-odd years and which has so damaged the fabric of british trade, manufacturing and business since our entry into the then eec in 1973 by burdensome and anti-competitive legislation. sadly, the damage – vast damage – has already been done and is ongoing. only by returning all legislative power to a newly-liberated uk parliament with all its sovereignty restored, can the legislative process be made relevant to uk interests and legislators fully accountable to the people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to cut red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and improve the design and quality of legislation. under refit, the commission is screening the entire stock of eu legislation on an ongoing and systematic basis to identify burdens, inconsistencies, ineffective measures and identified corrective actions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the kaufmann report today. as a matter of principle we do not support and will not vote for any report which accepts the right of the eu to make the laws of the united kingdom, however virtuous the proposals seem in isolation. the report makes it clear that, in whatever form, the process of legislation is going to continue. its only virtue is that it impliedly damns the method of legislation that has pertained over the last sixty-odd years and which has so damaged the fabric of british trade, manufacturing and business since our entry into the then eec in 1973 by burdensome and anti-competitive legislation. sadly, the damage – vast damage – has already been done and is ongoing. only by returning all legislative power to a newly-liberated uk parliament with all its sovereignty restored, can the legislative process be made relevant to uk interests and legislators fully accountable to the people.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the kaufmann report today. as a matter of principle we do not support and will not vote for any report which accepts the right of the eu to make the laws of the united kingdom, however virtuous the proposals seem in isolation. the report makes it clear that, in whatever form, the process of legislation is going to continue. its only virtue is that it impliedly damns the method of legislation that has pertained over the last sixty-odd years and which has so damaged the fabric of british trade, manufacturing and business since our entry into the then eec in 1973 by burdensome and anti-competitive legislation. sadly, the damage – vast damage – has already been done and is ongoing. only by returning all legislative power to a newly-liberated uk parliament with all its sovereignty restored, can the legislative process be made relevant to uk interests and legislators fully accountable to the people.
in writing. ‒ the acp (africa caribbean pacific) countries are poor countries which the eu aims to dominate politically and economically. one of the primary tools by which it does this is politicised trade deals, whereby market access is conditional upon submitting to eu political demands. the economic partnership agreements are amongst the most intrusive and formalised means by which the eu gains control over poor countries. we will vote against any attempt to make the eu more powerful towards actors in the global south.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to cut red-tape, remove regulatory burdens, and simplify and improve the design and quality of eu legislation. while there is always a risk for vulnerable groups to be unduly affected by the reduction of administrative burdens, as tends to be the meaning behind ‘red-tape’, i can sympathise with the time-consumption and loss of revenue that such things introduce for many businesses. in this case i voted in favour of the report as i am confident that this report calls for the reduction of commercial burdens without reducing employment standards and will not encourage precarious types of employment. furthermore, there is a clear commitment in this report for the inclusion of social partners and consumers in the programme, which was guaranteed by the work of the s&d rapporteur, sylvia kaufmann.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to cut red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and improve the design and quality of legislation. under refit, the commission is screening the entire stock of eu legislation on an ongoing and systematic basis to identify burdens, inconsistencies, ineffective measures and identified corrective actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased to see it highlighting the importance of the better regulation culture, including the need to reduce red tape, simplify legislation and ensure that eu legislation does not negatively affect competitiveness.
mr president, i did not support the report on the single market regulations. it contained several controversial elements which i do not feel will positively contribute to the further single market integration that we all want to see. references to consumer, social and environmental objectives as criteria to guide fitness checks, impact assessments and evaluation processes of current and future eu legislation were absent from the initial draft report and had to be introduced by my group via 15 plenary amendments, which were sadly lost. furthermore, instead of emphasising the need for better regulation, regulatory action in general in this report is regarded as a bureaucratic burden. subsidiarity is used as a tool to greatly undermine eu competences already agreed upon by member states, eluding the possibility that action at eu level is justified in specific and detailed cases where it is deemed more effective than action taken at a national, regional or local level. additionally, the wording on gold-plating could be potentially interpreted as a means to limit policies aimed at ensuring social, workers’ and consumer rights. instead the report should have made a stronger call for greater clarity on how to transpose eu directives correctly in order to avoid extra costs for businesses, consumers and citizens.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against this non-legislative report as we believe that the best way to improve single market regulation is to deregulate. ukip are particularly concerned by aspects of the report that criticise member states’ lack of transposition of single market legislation. the report further calls on the commission to launch infringement proceedings against these member states, which ukip are vehemently opposed to.
in writing. – i voted against this report. this is an own-initiative report setting out parliament’s views on the implementation of measures relating to the single market. the report contained some positive provisions such as a call for the inclusion of worker and consumer rights in addition to considering environmental and socio-economic considerations. however, it did not call for any new measures, but for the effective use of existing instruments, a code word for further single market integration, thereby stripping member states of their governmental autonomy
in writing. ‒ as much as this report talks about the importance of transparency and reducing the administrative and regulatory burden of the european union it considers achieving this by further wasting taxpayers’ money. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against this non-legislative report as we believe that the best way to improve single market regulation is to deregulate. ukip are particularly concerned by aspects of the report that criticise member states’ lack of transposition of single market legislation. the report further calls on the commission to launch infringement proceedings against these member states, which ukip are vehemently opposed to.
in writing. – ukip has voted against this non-legislative report as we believe that the best way to improve single market regulation is to deregulate. ukip are particularly concerned by aspects of the report that criticise member states’ lack of transposition of single market legislation. the report further calls on the commission to launch infringement proceedings against these member states, which ukip are vehemently opposed to.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome this report from my colleague anneleen van bossuyt and its strong support for improving competitiveness in the eu, and calls for scrapping unnecessary laws, which strongly ties in with the red-tape-cutting agenda in the uk. importantly, as well, this report references targets for burden reduction and improved enforcement of eu laws: with serious improvements in these areas we can help ensure a level-playing field for all companies and that the single market works better for business.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because its focus is on deregulation rather than more effective regulation. it does not take social and environmental indicators into account and does not put enough emphasis on workers’ rights. i voted for paragraph 29 of the original text which calls for making public consultations available in all official languages. welsh is a co-official language rather than a full official language, but if public consultations are to be meaningful they need to use the languages people speak. in wales this would include welsh.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it supports our prime minister’s aim to reduce eu bureaucracy and improve the enforcement of eu law. it also aims to provide a level playing-field for all companies which trade in the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which contained several controversial elements and which was missing references to consumer, social and environmental objectives as criteria to guide fitness checks, impact assessments and evaluation processes of current and future eu legislation.
in writing. – ukip has voted against this non-legislative report as we believe that the best way to improve single market regulation is to deregulate. ukip are particularly concerned by aspects of the report that criticise member states’ lack of transposition of single market legislation. the report further calls on the commission to launch infringement proceedings against these member states, which ukip are vehemently opposed to.
in writing. ‒ labour meps are in favour of having more streamlined eu legislation and members states’ prerogatives, with due consideration given to the advantages of harmonised eu rules on social, workers’, consumer and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against this non-legislative report as we believe that the best way to improve single market regulation is to deregulate. ukip are particularly concerned by aspects of the report that criticise member states’ lack of transposition of single market legislation. the report further calls on the commission to launch infringement proceedings against these member states, which ukip are vehemently opposed to.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against this non-legislative report as we believe that the best way to improve single market regulation is to deregulate. ukip are particularly concerned by aspects of the report that criticise member states’ lack of transposition of single market legislation. the report further calls on the commission to launch infringement proceedings against these member states, which ukip are vehemently opposed to.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against this non-legislative report as we believe that the best way to improve single market regulation is to deregulate. ukip are particularly concerned by aspects of the report that criticise member states’ lack of transposition of single market legislation. the report further calls on the commission to launch infringement proceedings against these member states, which ukip are vehemently opposed to.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which focuses on better regulation in the single market. i have long argued against overly burdensome regulation in the eu, i therefore welcome this report’s focus on creating a competitive regulatory environment and an efficient single market, which will encourage innovation, production and trade.
mr president, the european parliamentary labour party abstained on this report because, although we fully support citizenship education in schools, we do not believe that it should be decided at an eu level. education is a member state competence and in the case of my own constituency, scotland, a devolved competence. therefore it is up to member states and regional governments, where authority lies on education policy, to determine the curriculum in schools.
mr president, in the seminal book on communism, the abc of communism, the chapter on schools said schools had three tasks. one: it had to inspire the coming generation of workers with devotion to the regime. second, they had to create a young ruling class who could be cultured controllers, and they must assist those in power to control the economy. it is clear, having lost the argument that the eu has benefit to our young, when we have youth unemployment of over 35% in most countries, that the eu’s response is to ensure greater propaganda. they are learning from the abc of communism, in short, in this programme to inspire the coming generation of students to have devotion to the eu through euro teacher of the year awards, to create a young ruling class of cultured controllers, like those in the socialists and to my right, or people like margrethe vestager, who started here to become a commissioner. if you want your children to think independently and not be indoctrinated by the eu: vote to leave the eu on 23 june.
in writing. – this report contained some positive provisions specifically regarding the positive and proactive role that the eu can play in everyday life. however, it does not encourage critical engagement or thinking within the eu. this is absolutely crucial for any well rounded and robust learning programme. it is not simply good enough to blindly accept the authority of the eu project without it being subject to greater scrutiny and debate. if the introduction of an eu dimension into school education is being introduced, then a wider array of views must be taught to school goers than the simple assertion of the immutability of the status quo. that mind set serves no-one and it was for these reasons that i abstained on the report.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for more funding for eu programmes such as the european house of history. it also wants to incorporate an ‘eu dimension into teaching’ and for the eu to be ‘better highlighted in teaching materials’. the report actually suggests that people only become eurosceptic due to a lack of information and education on the eu. it calls on member states to encourage and facilitate high-quality training on eu topics for teachers, other educational staff, youth leaders and trainers. this is another example of eu propaganda and interference in the education system of member states. the european union has no competency in this area as article 165 of the tfeu clearly states. the european union’s desire to interfere in the uk education system with propaganda sets a dangerous precedent for the future.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report. we oppose any form of eu interference in member states’ national curricula, especially with regard to the eu being better highlighted in teaching materials, disseminating eu propaganda and calling for more funding to do so. the eu has no competency in the education systems of member states and in fact is going against article 165 of the tfeu which states that the eu ‘fully respect the responsibility of the member states for the content of teaching and the organisation of education systems and their cultural and linguistic diversity’.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report. we oppose any form of eu interference in member states’ national curricula, especially with regard to the eu being better highlighted in teaching materials, disseminating eu propaganda and calling for more funding to do so. the eu has no competency in the education systems of member states and in fact is going against article 165 of the tfeu which states that the eu ‘fully respect the responsibility of the member states for the content of teaching and the organisation of education systems and their cultural and linguistic diversity’.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this report, the premise of which undermines the fact that member states alone are responsible for the content and organisation of their education systems. this report repeatedly proposes actions that go beyond the scope of eu competence and that promote an overtly pro-eu agenda and a specifically european approach to the teaching of history. this slanted approach is a very good example of why education systems should remain firmly in the hands of member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report. we oppose any form of eu interference in member states’ national curricula, especially with regard to the eu being better highlighted in teaching materials, disseminating eu propaganda and calling for more funding to do so. the eu has no competency in the education systems of member states and in fact is going against article 165 of the tfeu which states that the eu ‘fully respect the responsibility of the member states for the content of teaching and the organisation of education systems and their cultural and linguistic diversity’.
in writing. ‒ in my view this own-initiative report is very damaging. it looks to give school students a biased view of the eu. it will force schools to give only a positive view of the eu. i strongly believe that the report strengthens the case for why education systems and curricula must remain protected from eu intervention and should remain in the hands of member states.
in writing. ‒ along with my fellow labour meps, i abstained on this report because, although we fully support citizenship education in schools, we do not believe that it should be decided at an eu level. education is a member state competence, therefore it is up to member states and regional governments, where authority lies on education policy, to determine the curriculum in schools.
in writing. ‒ whilst there are many aspects of this report which i can support, i think that members of this house are deluding themselves if they think that hostility to the eu can or should be ‘educated’ out of people. i support the eu and will vote in june for scotland to remain in. however the eu has no role in directing member states as to what should be taught in schools, and reports of this kind will do nothing positive for those of us arguing against brexit.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report. we oppose any form of eu interference in member states’ national curricula, especially with regard to the eu being better highlighted in teaching materials, disseminating eu propaganda and calling for more funding to do so. the eu has no competency in the education systems of member states and in fact is going against article 165 of the tfeu which states that the eu ‘fully respect the responsibility of the member states for the content of teaching and the organisation of education systems and their cultural and linguistic diversity’.
in writing. ‒ the decision of the british conservatives to vote against mep drăghici’s ‘learning eu at school’ report reflects deep concerns about its overall premise and content. its proposals go well beyond the supporting competence of the eu in the area of education, advocating a concerted effort by the commission, parliament and member states to put more positive content about the eu into national curricula, rather than giving young people the necessary tools to develop their own conclusions. uk legislation requires schools to deal with political issues, including consideration of the eu, in a balanced way. it is up to schools to decide how to achieve this and for member states alone to decide the content and organisation of their education systems. in addition, we profoundly disagree with the report’s assumption that either pro-or anti-eu views are rooted in ignorance, or what is, or is not, taught in schools. the european parliament must stick to supporting policy and best-practice exchange on education amongst member states, where the eu can add real value.
in writing. ‒ the labour party abstained on this report because, although we fully support citizenship education in schools, we do not believe that it should be decided at an eu level. education is a member state competence, therefore it is up to member states and regional governments, where authority lies on education policy, to determine the curriculum in schools.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report. we oppose any form of eu interference in member states’ national curricula, especially with regard to the eu being better highlighted in teaching materials, disseminating eu propaganda and calling for more funding to do so. the eu has no competency in the education systems of member states and in fact is going against article 165 of the tfeu which states that the eu ‘fully respect the responsibility of the member states for the content of teaching and the organisation of education systems and their cultural and linguistic diversity’.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report. we oppose any form of eu interference in member states’ national curricula, especially with regard to the eu being better highlighted in teaching materials, disseminating eu propaganda and calling for more funding to do so. the eu has no competency in the education systems of member states and in fact is going against article 165 of the tfeu which states that the eu ‘fully respect the responsibility of the member states for the content of teaching and the organisation of education systems and their cultural and linguistic diversity’.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report. we oppose any form of eu interference in member states’ national curricula, especially with regard to the eu being better highlighted in teaching materials, disseminating eu propaganda and calling for more funding to do so. the eu has no competency in the education systems of member states and in fact is going against article 165 of the tfeu which states that the eu ‘fully respect the responsibility of the member states for the content of teaching and the organisation of education systems and their cultural and linguistic diversity’.
in writing. ‒ according to a 2014 eurobarometer opinion poll, 44 % of european union citizens feel that they have limited understanding of how the eu works and 52 % of europeans believe that their voice is not taken into account. this disconnect from political institutions also exists at national and local level, with few people voting in the uk police and crime commissioner elections, for example. enhancing dialogue about the eu in public spaces is important in order to rebuild citizens’ involvement in common european ideals and fundamental values of freedom and democracy, as enshrined in the treaties. sharing knowledge about the eu in formal, non-formal and informal education settings is a way to address democratic deficits and tackle the gap between the voice of european citizens and the eu institutions. i fully support citizenship education in schools. however, ‘education’ remains a member state competence as reflected in the non-legislative status of this report which seeks to support educators and learners through the sharing of best practice. i am very proud of schools and education organisations in my region which have recognised the democratic deficit and are addressing it through innovative programmes to teach pupils about their rights and responsibilities in respect of british, european and global citizenship.
mr president, the erasmus programme has been a great success story in providing opportunities for student mobility across the european union. in scotland alone, 1 877 students participated in the scheme in the 2012-13 intake. however, we must ensure that students involved in vocational training and education also enjoy the benefits of an erasmus experience. the opportunity to study and train abroad can be life-changing. it is unsurprising that eurosceptics do not want young people in the uk and scotland to benefit from these opportunities – opportunities we would lose if we came out of the european union. i hope scottish students and apprentices alike can benefit from these life—changing and enhancing opportunities.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, this is another dimension in which the eu are trying to widen its scope and introduce new definitions in order to justify the free movement of people. we oppose calls for additional funding: this report suggests increasing the contributions made by member states, as well as at european level. we do not support the eu intervening in the national curricula of member states, the eu has no competency in this area and this is stated in article 165 of the tfeu.
in writing. – this is a very positive report on the erasmus programme and calls for better access to mobility programmes for learners in vocational education and training. programmes such as the erasmus provide key opportunities for our young people to study in various european cities. these opportunities not only enrich the lives and education of our young people, but also provide a great boost to irish cities and towns in terms of european funding. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is just another path in which the eu can widen its scope to further justify the movement of free people. it calls for the creation of new definitions such as a ‘european apprentice’ seeking to intervene in national curricula once again. this report creates a ‘european student card’ and encourages the implementation of a european network of knowledge alliances. i voted against allowing the eu to interfere in the uk educational system.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, this is another dimension in which the eu are trying to widen its scope and introduce new definitions in order to justify the free movement of people. we oppose calls for additional funding: this report suggests increasing the contributions made by member states, as well as at european level. we do not support the eu intervening in the national curricula of member states, the eu has no competency in this area and this is stated in article 165 of the tfeu.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, this is another dimension in which the eu are trying to widen its scope and introduce new definitions in order to justify the free movement of people. we oppose calls for additional funding: this report suggests increasing the contributions made by member states, as well as at european level. we do not support the eu intervening in the national curricula of member states, the eu has no competency in this area and this is stated in article 165 of the tfeu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, the erasmus+ programme is a fantastic way of improving young people’s intercultural and language skills. one of the challenges, though, is to ensure that these programmes are not limited to students in higher education but also to more disadvantaged young people – and provide them with an opportunity to study or work abroad. i therefore welcome this report, which calls for expanding and improving mobility for vocational training and education.
in writing. ‒ in line with the uk government, i welcome and subsequently support the development of vocational and educational training (vet) as well as the erasmus+ programme. as examples of eu-level culture and education programmes, both offer a good degree of eu added value and consequently offer significant benefits for uk citizens. indeed, such programmes help to ensure people have the skills both they, and our economy, need in order to grow. unfortunately however, a number of less favourable proposals were adopted during the committee stage. not only do these proposals risk increased spending and red tape for member states, but they also seek to promote a ‘stronger european identity’ and are overly prescriptive in respect of member state education systems. as a firm supporter of the principle of subsidiarity, such attempted competence creep is unacceptable and as a result, limited the extent to which i could support this report. the uk must remain in the position whereby it can develop its own systems to reflect the needs of its citizens. it is the uk, and not the eu, that is in the best position to make decisions on such matters. it is for these reasons that i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report which will improve mobility options for students in disadvantaged positions who rely on this programme to study and gain work experience abroad. mobility has an undeniable positive effect in terms of skills and competences development and, ultimately, employability of young people. it also represents a key opportunity for the self-development of individuals who will learn another language, open up to other cultures and acquire intercultural skills, on top of the specific competences they will be trained for.
in writing. ‒ one challenge of the erasmus+ programme is ensuring that it reaches out to students in higher education but also to more disadvantaged young people who would not otherwise have access to such opportunities of learning abroad. labour meps welcome this report which calls for expanding and improving mobility for vet (vocational training and education) through existing european programmes, but also through the establishment of a common european framework setting out the possibilities open to young people in terms of available courses, locations, range of professional activity and sector, companies, duration, and the final qualification they would achieve.
in writing. ‒ the ability of students to study for part of their course in each other’s countries is a major european success story. the universities of essex, hertfordshire and east anglia offer the chance to study abroad in over 20 different countries, and more than 150 students from the university of cambridge participated in erasmus exchanges abroad in 2013-2014. today i am backing extending such exchanges to students from a wider spectrum of society, with more emphasis on exchanges involving vocational training as well as more traditional, academic education. as a co-president of the all-party disability rights intergroup in this parliament, i particularly commend the provisions to ensure specific support so disabled young people are fully given the opportunity to take part. all of this is not just about students being able to experience life and learning elsewhere in europe, but being able to use that learning to benefit from life opportunities in their careers for the rest of those lives. there are those from my own country who are looking to cut off these life chances to our young people. labour meps are working here in the european parliament and campaigning in britain to maintain them for future generations.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate my colleague mr maragall on this report. i am however disappointed that his amendment supporting the languages used in each country’s education system did not pass. education in europe is provided through mediums which go well beyond the eu’s official languages and this reality should be recognised within erasmus. it is ironic that on a day this house voted to promote an ‘eu aspect’ in education systems, it voted to deny the rights of speakers of scots, gaelic, welsh and catalan.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, this is another dimension in which the eu are trying to widen its scope and introduce new definitions in order to justify the free movement of people. we oppose calls for additional funding: this report suggests increasing the contributions made by member states, as well as at european level. we do not support the eu intervening in the national curricula of member states, the eu has no competency in this area and this is stated in article 165 of the tfeu.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it calls for the eu’s erasmus student exchange programme to be extended to more disadvantaged young people, for example those in vocational training, who cannot currently access the scheme.
in writing. ‒ british conservatives opted to abstain on this report due to a mix of positive and negative elements. we broadly welcomed, for example, the rapporteur’s commitment to tackling the gender gap in stem education through eu supporting programmes (§40); the suggestion that priority should be given to longer-term work experience over short-term equivalents, which reduces administrative burden (§7); and the call to assess the impact of erasmus+ and other vocational and educational training (vet) mobility programmes, in matching work experience placements with real jobs (§65). however, other paragraphs propose unnecessary measures likely to create additional costs (§9, 15, 24) and interfere in areas of national competence, for example, secondary education systems (§27) and in how we define and develop vet (§20), which uk members were unable to support. with a record number of people in work and youth unemployment reaching near 10-year lows, the uk must remain free to develop its own vet and is best placed to do so. inflexible, eu-wide definitions of apprenticeships should be avoided, just as exploitation and unfair working practices must continue to be countered if member states are to develop flexible labour markets that help to provide opportunities for young people.
in writing. ‒ one of the challenges of european mobility programmes such as erasmus + is to ensure that they not only reach out to students in higher education but also to more disadvantaged young people who would not otherwise have access to such opportunities of learning abroad. i therefore welcome this report which calls for expanding and improving mobility for vet – vocational training and education – through existing european programmes, but also through the establishment of a common european framework setting out the possibilities open to young people in terms of available courses, locations, range of professional activity and sector, companies, duration, the final qualification they would achieve, etc.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, this is another dimension in which the eu are trying to widen its scope and introduce new definitions in order to justify the free movement of people. we oppose calls for additional funding: this report suggests increasing the contributions made by member states, as well as at european level. we do not support the eu intervening in the national curricula of member states, the eu has no competency in this area and this is stated in article 165 of the tfeu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, this is another dimension in which the eu are trying to widen its scope and introduce new definitions in order to justify the free movement of people. we oppose calls for additional funding: this report suggests increasing the contributions made by member states, as well as at european level. we do not support the eu intervening in the national curricula of member states, the eu has no competency in this area and this is stated in article 165 of the tfeu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding report, this is another dimension in which the eu are trying to widen its scope and introduce new definitions in order to justify the free movement of people. we oppose calls for additional funding: this report suggests increasing the contributions made by member states, as well as at european level. we do not support the eu intervening in the national curricula of member states, the eu has no competency in this area and this is stated in article 165 of the tfeu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report because, as far as i understand, erasmus+ and other such european mobility programmes are not doing enough to be accessible to more disadvantaged young people who do not otherwise have access to learning abroad. which is a great loss of potential for young people: mobility has an undeniably positive effect, unlocking the potential of young people. it also represents a key opportunity for the self-development of individuals who will learn another language, open up to other cultures and acquire intercultural skills, on top of the specific competences they will be trained for.
in writing. ‒ the struggle to get young people the opportunities they deserve is an increasingly difficult one. in my own constituency the potential closure of steel works at port talbot, llanwern and others highlights the closing doors that many disadvantaged young people face. although the eu has helped, through funding for schemes such as jobs growths wales, the erasmus + programme can provide real extra value, if it can ensure that it meets the needs of disadvantaged young people who are not in formal education. i was therefore very happy to back this report which calls for real effort to go into building up mobility for vocational training and education. this would be achieved both through existing programmes, but also through the establishment of a common european framework setting out the possibilities open to young people. it is often only a lack of information that holds people back; it is rather difficult to take an opportunity if you don’t know that it’s there. these are the reasons why, together with my fellow labour meps, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ one of the challenges of european mobility programmes such as erasmus+ is to ensure that they not only reach out to students in higher education but also to more disadvantaged young people who would not otherwise have access to such excellent opportunities to learn abroad. i therefore welcome this report which calls for expanding and improving mobility for vet – vocational training and education – through existing european programmes, and also through the establishment of a common european framework setting out the options open to young people in terms of available courses, locations, range of professional activities and sectors, companies, duration, the final qualification they would achieve, etc. mobility has an undeniable positive effect in terms of the development of skills and competences and, ultimately, the employability of young people. it also represents a key opportunity for self-development of individuals who will learn another language, open up to other cultures and acquire intercultural skills, on top of the acquisition of specific competences. these are the reasons why, together with my fellow labour meps, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for expanding and improving mobility for vocational training and education through existing european programmes, but also through the establishment of a common european framework that will widen the availability of the programme for young people not at university. erasmus+ has been a great success in the uk, giving young people the opportunity to learn another language, experience another culture and making them more employable – past participants of the erasmus+ programme are half as likely to suffer long term unemployment.
in writing. ‒ seeks to extend the influence of the eu in international organisations like the imf, oecd, g20 etc. at the expense of member states’ independence, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report encourages the extension of eu influence globally at the expense of member states. practically this means the eu would replace the uk on bodies such as the imf and international standards committees. i voted against giving up more british sovereignty to the unelected bureaucrats at the european commission.
in writing. ‒ seeks to extend the influence of the eu in international organisations like the imf, oecd, g20 etc. at the expense of member states’ independence, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – seeks to extend the influence of the eu in international organisations like the imf, oecd, g20 etc. at the expense of member states’ independence, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this report, which proposes that member states, including the uk, should give up their individual seats on international financial fora such as the imf and the g20 in favour of a single eu one, and further, that the european commission should be responsible for representing all eu member states. the uk should never give up its seat on any of these international fora.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i wholly reject the notion that member states should give up their seats in international institutions in favour of a single eu seat. if eurozone states wish to have a single eurozone seat that is a matter for them, but the uk will not be participating.
in writing. ‒ there is much in this report which is to be commended – such as strengthening the involvement of the european parliament and calling for greater international cooperation. however, because of the amendments stating the euro is to become the currency of all member states, and concerns about the streamlining of eu representation on international financial bodies, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i disagree with the references to the streamlining of the eu representation in international financial bodies and i fully reject the notion that the euro should become the currency of all member states of the union.
in writing. ‒ the panama papers have revealed, for those who may have had any doubts, the truly global nature of both financial relations and organised corruption. this in turn underlines the need for international cooperation and for the eu to play a leading role. the eu must aid international institutions in seeking out dubious dealings, whether they are carried out by criminal syndicates, russian oligarchs or tory politicians.
in writing. – seeks to extend the influence of the eu in international organisations like the imf, oecd, g20 etc. at the expense of member states’ independence, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ despite a number of good points, like the call for more cooperation on international level, the need for greater transparency of these international financial organisations and stronger involvement of the european parliament, i voted against the report as member states should not discard their own representation in international fora, furthermore increasing supranational impositions does not achieve greater democratic legitimacy.
in writing. ‒ seeks to extend the influence of the eu in international organisations like the imf, oecd, g20 etc. at the expense of member states’ independence, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ seeks to extend the influence of the eu in international organisations like the imf, oecd, g20 etc. at the expense of member states’ independence, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ seeks to extend the influence of the eu in international organisations like the imf, oecd, g20 etc. at the expense of member states’ independence, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, ultimately because i believed that the references to the streamlining of the eu representation in international financial bodies was not the right direction that the eu should be necessarily taking, and furthermore i objected to the notion that the euro should become the currency of all member states of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. whilst it certainly had some agreeable elements, such as the need for greater policy coherence and coordination between global institutions, i was unconvinced on the desirability of the report in its entirety.
in writing. ‒ important though small-scale fishing is to many communities, the eu’s cfp approach has too many ulterior motives in its approach so must be opposed.
in writing. – this report is a step in the right direction as it acknowledges the fact that small-scale fishing should not be categorised in the same manner as industrial, aka large-scale fishing, and thus there should be a clearer distinction. especially as there are fundamental differences in terms of the scale of the environmental impact, sustainability and socio-economic interdependence between small-scale fisheries and communities that rely on sustainable non-industrial fishing, whereas industrial vessels and their multinational operators are not concerned with having a symbiotic relationship with any particular coastal community and their surrounding marine environments – their general concern is profiteering and maximising the detrimental exploitation of stocks. the focus on more regionalisation and a more equitable distribution of quotas for non-industrial fisheries was something that my party would be very supportive of. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is based on small-scale coastal fishing. small-scale coastal fishing is important and the eu should not be allowed to dictate to member states how to care for these areas. more importantly this report is the usual eu cocktail of claimed data inadequacy and new measures to extend its power.
in writing. ‒ important though small-scale fishing is to many communities, the eu’s cfp approach has too many ulterior motives in its approach so must be opposed.
in writing. – important though small-scale fishing is to many communities, the eu’s cfp approach has too many ulterior motives in its approach so must be opposed.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is an important industry in the uk and especially in the south-west with many individual fishermen and coastal communities relying on these operations for their livelihoods. with such small-scale and often traditional operations, a one-size-fits-all approach is not appropriate and flexibility is required within legislation to accommodate these practices and other local conditions. i am pleased that this legislation is focusing on supporting and developing this sector in a way that is sensitive to this, whilst using the powerful tools we have available in the form of european-level funding from the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) to promote diversification and growth. this represents a step towards environmental and economic sustainability for coastal communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it looks at how innovation and diversification can help coastal regions dependent on fishing to survive. the s&d group believes in the importance of the further development of socially and environmentally sustainable small-scale and artisanal fishing.
in writing. ‒ this report correctly highlights the fact that the fishing industry is hugely varied throughout the eu. whilst the new cfp does well in underlining the importance of small-scale fishing, it is important that the necessary definitions are now dictated from the centre. the rapporteur took these points on board and i was able to support her report.
in writing. – important though small-scale fishing is to many communities, the eu’s cfp approach has too many ulterior motives in its approach so must be opposed.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing guarantees a high level of employment in coastal areas and generally represents a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. therefore, i voted in favour of the report, as it looks at how innovation and diversification can help coastal regions dependant on fishing to survive.
in writing. ‒ important though small-scale fishing is to many communities, the eu’s cfp approach has too many ulterior motives in its approach so must be opposed.
in writing. ‒ important though small-scale fishing is to many communities, the eu’s cfp approach has too many ulterior motives in its approach so must be opposed.
in writing. ‒ important though small-scale fishing is to many communities, the eu’s cfp approach has too many ulterior motives in its approach so must be opposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this pech report by rapporteur ruža tomašić because it looks at how innovation and diversification can help coastal regions dependent on fishing to survive. although not something that especially affects my region, the west midlands, i can sympathise with the people who live in these areas and whose lives depend on fishing. furthermore, it is an objective of my group to protect and create jobs in these small-scale and artisanal fisheries, and as coastal fishing guarantees a high level of employment in coastal areas, we can make it into a socially and environmentally sustainable industry.
in writing. ‒ areas and communities that depend on coastal fisheries require specific measures in order to grow and develop. i am therefore pleased to support this report, which highlights the importance of such small scale coastal fishing and calls on the european commission to do more to protect it, including by looking at measures in the area of diversification and innovation.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this because even when the objectives are laudable, the reality of the eu policy is a behavioural-economic ‘one-size-fits-all’ disaster.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as it contained a number of positive provisions. there were provisions contained within which refer to the external dimensions of the cfp, and provisions which accentuated the need to address illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. this includes minimum conditions for bilateral agreements, and a duty to foster cooperation among regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos), not to mention ensuring that the sustainable fisheries agreements with third countries benefit third countries, including their local populations and fisheries sectors, and promoting environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries based on transparency and the participation of non-governmental stakeholders. these are all positive moves and should therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ this report is the eu wanting more control of fishing in member state waters. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this because even when the objectives are laudable, the reality of the eu policy is a behavioural-economic ‘one-size-fits-all’ disaster.
in writing. – we oppose this because even when the objectives are laudable, the reality of the eu policy is a behavioural-economic ‘one-size-fits-all’ disaster.
in writing. ‒ this report imposes a number of measures on the eu external fleet (eu-flagged vessels fishing outside eu waters), particularly with regard to fishing in the waters of third countries. the eu fishing fleet is one of the world’s largest and ranks in the top three of the world’s catching powers; therefore, the opportunity for influence is significant. within the scope of this report, there are measures relating to cooperation among regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos) and transparency of fisheries partnership agreements; job creation and training in third countries; combating illegal, undeclared and unregulated fishing, as well as promotion of high environmental standards in third countries. the report is both fair and transparent and represents greater cooperation between third countries and the european union. it is for these reasons i voted to adopt this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it uses the best strategy for realising the eu’s objective for promoting sustainable fisheries, which preserves natural areas and helps maintain jobs for the future.
in writing. ‒ there is a fundamental difference between the northern fisheries agreements involving norway, iceland and the faeroe islands and those involving other countries; the former essentially involve co-management between the eu and the relevant countries, whereas the latter tend to be less well balanced. the rapporteur was happy to take this fact on board and i was therefore able to support her important work in this field.
in writing. – we oppose this because even when the objectives are laudable, the reality of the eu policy is a behavioural-economic ‘one-size-fits-all’ disaster.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it calls for promoting sustainable fishing in third countries, to ensure that fishery products imported into the eu are produced under acceptable labour and human rights standards, to keep up pressure on states to combat iuu fishing and to enhance controls.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this because even when the objectives are laudable, the reality of the eu policy is a behavioural-economic ‘one-size-fits-all’ disaster.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this because even when the objectives are laudable, the reality of the eu policy is a behavioural-economic ‘one-size-fits-all’ disaster.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this because even when the objectives are laudable, the reality of the eu policy is a behavioural-economic ‘one-size-fits-all’ disaster.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the world’s largest market for products derived from the fisheries industry and has one of the largest fleets to boot, ranking among the top three in terms of catching power. i voted in favour of this report as it uses the best strategy for realising the eu’s objective for promoting sustainable fisheries, which preserves natural areas for generations.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, it is rather sad that it is often at moments like this that we as a chamber come together. we all come together to condemn the acts that we have seen over the last few months, in fact years, in many of our countries. but after each attack we have questions. a few days after the brussels attacks, a man in my constituency tweeted how he had confronted a muslim woman in croydon in south london, and asked her ‘to explain brussels’. his tweet upset a lot of people. another twitter user replied: ‘what has a muslim woman in croydon, south london, got to do with the horrific events in belgium?’ so while his original tweet may have been offensive or clumsy, it also demonstrates that we are all looking for answers, whether we have no faith, another faith or are muslims. we all want to explain brussels: a city we know so well, whose citizens have buried family, colleagues and friends prematurely after these appalling acts. last month i opened a conference of the european parliament, organised by the iman foundation, on tackling extremism and terrorism. what was interesting about this conference was that while there may be people here in this chamber who call for more european agencies to solve all these problems, none of the speakers or experts present there claimed that there was a single solution or metaphorical silver bullet. instead they spoke about the need to tackle terrorism at various levels: at an international level, militarily, through use of intelligence and diplomacy; at a national level, upholding the rule of law, defence of our values and security of our citizens; and at a local community level to tackle extremism at its roots. we spoke about the drivers of terrorism: some searching for an identity or a sense of belonging, others radicalised in prisons; some violent individuals looking for a new cause, others with grievances over perceived unfair foreign policy; yet others who are vulnerable and fooled into believing there is a final shortcut to paradise in a world of temptation. while we debate these issues here today, are we really clear about what we as meps can do to tackle this issue? yes, we can vote for a new pnr system that takes account of concerns over data protection and civil liberties. yes, we could encourage our intelligence agencies to work together. but this will only happen if they can trust each other and feel confident enough to share information, not if you force them. but for those of us who represent constituencies where young people have been radicalised, allow me to suggest one more thing we can do. at the iman conference last month i invited the unity of faiths foundation (tuff fc project) from london to speak about how they harness the power of football to give a sense of team spirit and instil british values in youngsters from different religions. at the project i had met a young lady who told me how she almost went to syria, after being recruited via social media such as snapchat. the project's founder, when he found out about this, made a few phone calls and gave her the choice of going through the gate of the airport to syria or the gates of the stadium of the premier league team that she supported. when she arrived at the stadium she was so overcome that she knelt down to kiss the pitch and now through her experience encourages others not to be recruited to terrorism. think of how much death and destruction that one act could have prevented; and as the project’s founder said, one of the best ways to counter terrorism is to prevent people from becoming terrorists. there must be similar projects in many of our cities that we can support and encourage, and if not, let me know, since tuff is willing to come to your town or city to help set up a similar project. so, whilst we may not be able to ‘explain brussels’, we may be able to help stop more attacks by encouraging cooperation across intelligence and security services, by giving security and law enforcement agencies whatever tools we can in a free and open society and by supporting projects that stop young people becoming terrorists and by all of us saying that we will not treat all muslims with suspicion. we will not drive more people into the arms of extremists. we will not let the terrorists win. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you very much for your question, but actually the answer is no. what we need is better sharing of intelligence. when you speak to intelligence experts, they in fact say – in their candid moments – that they do not have confidence in the intelligence services in other countries. how do we make sure we build that trust so that intelligence can be shared? let us get away from the idea that, whatever the problem, the solution is more europe and more agencies. actually, if we sit in these european agencies, we will ignore the young people in many of our communities who have been radicalised at grassroots level. for far too long we have ignored this because we want to make grand speeches in this chamber about european solutions. what we can do is to encourage these organisations to learn from each other and come together, but what we cannot do is use it as an excuse for yet more meetings in brussels.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the fundamental eu principle of freedom of movement for people, services and goods may well have been well intentioned, but it can only remain so if it is reactive and updated, ideally integrating and responding to both external and internal threats and pressures. its fundamental weaknesses lie in the turgid, lengthy and often outdated processes required to address what are now fast-moving events, not merely on the european continent but also on a global scale; but more fundamentally in the sacrosanct protection that it enjoys in the face of fundamental threats to civil society and citizens. trying to connect 28 member states’ varied cultures and processes at a time of crisis, the eu is unable to anticipate events or to react at adequate speed to these events. this is not an approach capable of countering let alone beating terrorism. when there is a threat, it is important to think like the adversary and not bury oneself in mindless dialogue and consultation with the objective of protecting a sacred cow. the united kingdom endured some 30 years of conflict and terrorist activities before a resolution in northern ireland was found. the uk has much to offer the european and international community on how to counter terrorism: not least money-laundering, a key element in terrorist funding and financing. but in contrast, the eu seems purely focused on unified border control and a central intelligence agency. but these so far have been total failures, critical weaknesses serving only to facilitate the recent terrorist atrocities. now again, the united kingdom has led the way in combating international counter-terrorist efforts via the five eyes, signet and as a founding member of the global counter-terrorism forum, and the uk will maintain those responsibilities, eu member or not. in contrast, the eu reaction to the migrant crisis has been unhelpful in the extreme and its reactions unhelpful and just like those of a rabbit in the headlights. the eu has its border control agency frontex, which consumes several hundred million euros but is not operational and is little more than a data collection and analysis agency. it produces reports and stats, fine; it is supposed to coordinate the activities of member states in border control according to its charter, but in fact it has no operational capability, and it has to rely on nato, individual member states and other operational forces to do anything useful. indeed, we have a basic conflict of interests here for frontex in that the eu mantra is open borders with no control. the eu probably never imagined that its open border mantra would encourage the movement of criminals, terrorists and weapons. the result has been that a number of countries have had to take unilateral action to defend their borders and actually, as a result, break their treaty obligations. but just look at intcen, set up as a fledgling european intelligence agency: yet another failure, doing little more than gathering data. the collection of data, such as fingerprints (already mentioned by others) at the borders within europe, has been a disastrous example. only 17% of migrants at key points of entry have been fingerprinted, and to make matters worse, even if their fingerprints have been taken, no one within the member states has been allowed to share that data. there could be no greater gift to terrorism than being invisible and untraceable, yet this is what the european union approach facilitates. we have talked about pnr, but that is stuck in turgid debate, as we well know. but there are issues about privacy and human rights, and i do wonder, having been criticised for the comment on frontier europe, are we not actually building that? for too many in this parliament, the response is: for rectification of these failures, we need more europe. and we heard that this afternoon. why would anyone pour more money into an approach and into structures that are broken, ill-conceived and ineffective? these can be addressed, but just not by doing more of the same; that is the definition of an idiot. it could well be argued that the eu should stick to matters that it can usefully address and do well, but stay out of matters where it does not have the experience or capability. general michael hayden, ex-head of the nsa in the us, said security is a national issue. now is the time for the eu and parliament to open their eyes to what is going on and bear in mind that the future is – and this should be recognised – bilateral agreements based on good data exchange. trusted data exchange and experience is the way forward, not trying to coerce 28 member states to do one thing.
blue-card question. – ms in 't veld, you have said that this parliament has failed to implement measures to protect its citizens and that what we must do is join the dots in order to do so. to quote, for example, the former secretary-general of interpol, ronald k. noble, who understands terrorism on the international stage: is he someone who has failed to join the dots when he describes europe’s open border arrangement, which allows travel through 26 countries without passport checks or border controls, as, in effect, an international passport-free zone in which terrorists can carry out attacks on the continent and make their escape? has he failed to join the dots, or is it you?
blue-card question.– it’s a funny old world when i start agreeing with the greens, but you are absolutely right. since 9/11 we have been talking about this; we are now quite a few years on. now, in my country, as in yours, we have had muslims living amongst us for 40 years, but when they first came 40 years ago, they had to learn english. they had to integrate. but, because of the left and the push for multiculturalism, i have met women in my constituency and across my country, as indeed across the european states, where they have forgotten to speak the national language. until we get to grips with that, would you not agree with me that we cannot move on? no matter what is said in this chamber today, you should listen to syed kamall: he is the one who has spoken the most sense today.
blue-card question.– would you not agree with me that political correctness is one of the biggest barriers to actually combating terrorism? if you identify where a threat is coming from, surely you must therefore take action against it, whether or not it suits the political agenda? if it comes as a result of mass immigration or from a particular immigrant community, surely that must be recognised and action taken to deal with that? otherwise you put political correctness above safety.
madam president, on behalf of the people of northern ireland, i want to use this opportunity to condemn the terrorist attacks in brussels. these barbarous attacks were shocking and brutal, and northern ireland stands with you in solidarity and determination to defeat terrorism in all its forms. sadly, on the same day as the brussels attack, the community in northern ireland was burying one of its own. prison officer adrian ismay was injured and later died when a bomb was planted under his vehicle outside his own home. he was killed by republican terrorists who have nothing to offer our community but death and tears. i am sure that this house would want to place on record our sympathy to his family and colleagues, and reiterate that we stand together in the defeat of terrorism, whether that be in brussels, paris, madrid or belfast. having listened to this debate today, i would suggest that this will not be done by creating more european agencies, but by the proper collaboration of nation states taking responsibility for the lives and well-being of their citizens.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, on the release of the panama papers, we have once again seen the usual outcry from politicians saying the rich are not paying their fair share of tax – like mr moscovici here in his speech before us today: he wants to make the rich pay their fair share. well, mr moscovici, you are one of those rich: you earn over eur 20 000 a month; you have a residence allowance of eur 3 000 a month; a eur 600-a-month expense allowance; a pension people would only dream of – eur 300 000 a year. you said tax transparency should apply to everyone. therefore i say to you: will you agree that you and all your other commissioners should put your tax accounts online so that the public can see the tax transparency of the commissioners? you also said that you want to crack down on tax havens. well, i agree with you. so, therefore, will you crack down on europe’s biggest tax haven – that of brussels? whilst the people of belgium and across europe pay tax rates of 30, 40 or 50% you, eu commissioners, civil servants and eu staff can pay as little as 8%. whilst we have youth unemployment across many countries of 30 and 40% or even more, you are enjoying the luxury of high salaries and low taxation. and will the eu meps pay themselves at the same levels of tax as in their own countries? the biggest scandal of all is that whilst the people pay their tax, the eurocrats pay virtually nothing. there is the scandal.
madam president, the debate on the panama papers has so far focused on corrupt politicians and downright criminals who have hidden their wealth or laundered money. but at the heart of this scandal are the british overseas territories, and they are crucial to the global network that facilitates tax avoidance. more of half of the companies that appear in the files – 113 000 in total – are registered in the british virgin islands. it is the relationship between these overseas territories and the city of london that facilitates tax avoidance by the wealthy. david cameron has sought to portray himself as the champion of tax transparency. yet we have seen him personally intervene to water down provisions to control money laundering and to exclude the very sort of trusts that we now know he has benefited from. by enabling tax avoidance by the wealthy, the legal limbo-land of british overseas territories is depriving us of public revenue at the very time when the nhs is showing record debts and services to the disabled and vulnerable in my country are being slashed. so much for the slogan: ‘we are all in this together’.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, this debate highlights the crossroads at which the british people find themselves: in any society there is a balance to be struck on tax and transparency. on the one hand, we could publish every detail of every person’s earnings and every tax return. we could say: if you have done nothing wrong, you have nothing to hide. it would be transparent, but it would provide no privacy. after all, you could allow phone tapping, you could allow looking into anyone’s internet history or you could even ban curtains, if you followed that logic. on the other hand, we could do the complete opposite. we could respect everybody’s privacy, publish absolutely nothing and allow things not to be exposed when they should be. that would make it difficult to deal with tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. it would make it harder to ensure that multinationals do not have a competitive advantage over smes. but here is the point. if on 23 june the united kingdom votes to leave the european union, we will have the sovereign right to take those decisions for ourselves and be able to get the balance right between justice and privacy. however, if the uk votes to stay in, those decisions will continue to be taken remotely in brussels and strasbourg. so there is a fundamental choice here: who governs britain? is it this place, or is it westminster?
mr president, what a difference a scandal makes. before luxleaks and the panama papers, those of us who were calling for country—by—country reporting were told that it was never going to happen. but here we are today, with the commission finally acting against the appalling injustice of aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion. it is important to recognise moments like this. i am proud to see the introduction of a measure i called for in my report last year, supported by my labour and socialist colleagues, though opposed by the uk conservatives. with the backing of great efforts from civil society right across europe, it goes to show that, acting together in the eu, we can achieve change. but this is no time for complacency; the commission’s proposals need improvement. the eur 750 million threshold is too high, and we need companies to break down their reports by every country in the world, not just the 28 member states and a handful of the very worst tax havens. today is a milestone for tax justice, but the hard work is only just beginning.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i shall confine my remarks to csdp, and i must say from the outset that the ecr group attaches great importance to the transatlantic alliance, to nato; indeed that attachment is among our founding principles. the eu, however, seems to imagine that it is bearing the world’s problems on its shoulders, minimising the effort of others. in fact, in the military field, the european union has no special requirements and no capabilities different to nato. there is no need for the european union to be militarily involved, and it is a complete distortion to imagine that csdp might somehow reinforce nato. it could complement nato with civil capabilities, but this ignores the very reasons for csdp: to create autonomous european military structures and decision-making processes in which the united states is not involved, and to make the eu an actor on the world stage. actually, this obsession with csdp is a distraction from nato at the very time when the alliance needs fresh vitality and commitment in the face of some very real threats. and i have to say: why is it that just four european countries are engaged with the united states and its other allies in the battle against isis when isis is shown to be the most immediate threat to european security and our wellbeing? instead of the continental european countries investing in increased defence capabilities and showing real political resolve, they prefer the pretence of military activity offered by the eu and they mislead the united states into imagining that european allies are thereby pulling their weight.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i welcome the high representative’s presence in the chamber tonight to inform not just all of us, but – equally as important – our constituents back home over development in the european union’s common foreign and security policy and common security and defence policy. most eu citizens are unaware of the extent to which the european union’s powers in this area have matured since the lisbon treaty and where the ideologues within the european commission intend to take it next, all without the direct consultation or full information provided to the public. the eu intergovernmental structures for foreign affairs and defence are already in place. we have before us a representative who determines and guides european union foreign policy, whilst representing the eu’s interests – not on the basis of the 28 member states but as its own independent political entity throughout the world. she is, of course, supported by the european external action service and european defence agency – if you like, the eu’s very own foreign office and ministry of defence. currently, the high representative is reviewing the foreign and defence policy of the eu, with her bolder and far more intrusive policy expected to be announced in the foreign affairs council timed to take place not before, but shortly after, the british referendum on my country’s continued eu membership at the end of june. in last week’s referendum, the dutch people democratically rejected the eu’s foreign policy ambitions in ukraine. i urge the british people to bravely follow suit and reject this entire failing project outright, thus protecting us from ever-closer union and, not least, eventual european union armed forces.
mr president, the european union is reviewing its foreign and defence policy. it might actually come as a surprise to many people in the united kingdom that the european union has a foreign and defence policy, so i thought, in the interests of transparency, that i would point out some of the things that are being said out here. last year, for example, commission president juncker called for the creation of an eu army, but at least he said: ‘you wouldn’t create a european army to use it immediately’. in september, angela merkel told david cameron that he would not get any meaningful reform to the uk’s relationship with the european union unless he dropped opposition to an eu army. well david cameron has gone awfully quiet about it, hasn’t he? maybe he caved in. maybe he sold our birthright for a pot of stew, coming back from brussels giving us three things we already had and one we did not want, but now perhaps plans to give up the defence of the realm in exchange. i wonder how many people in the uk know that there is a european defence action plan coming in june, very soon after the referendum, for example, or that the ultimate aim is an eu army. but if they knew that we were being threatened with the creation of an eu army, i do not think that they would risk staying in the eu. i think they would vote to leave on 23 june.
madam president, in this last annual debate on common foreign and security policy before the british referendum, let us say britain is stronger in europe and helps make europe stronger in the world. europe’s anti-piracy mission on the horn of africa was controlled from the uk forces command headquarters in northwood. britain formed the eu 3+3 that led to the iran nuclear deal. the london donor conference for syria was made a success because the eu leveraged the three billion raised. eu foreign policy has a veto for all, but where we do agree, we all exercise more influence. britain leaving the eu would carry more international burden. according to the director of europol and the former chief of british special forces, my country would be less secure. and as has been argued today, it would harm the whole international order. in the modern world of partnerships, the us and chinese presidents, the indian prime minister and commonwealth allies including australia and new zealand all say that it is better for britain to remain in the eu. as chancellor merkel has said, only vladimir putin would be happy if britain left. throughout history, from the congress of vienna to the end of the napoleonic wars, to the locarno pact at the end of the first world war to the great labour foreign secretary ernest bevin, who forged the relationship between america and europe at the end of the second world war, britain has engaged in europe to secure peace. i do not believe british eurosceptics know better than the nobel prize committee, which says that the eu is the most successful peace process in history. my parents fought the war in europe to win the peace. i will fight the referendum to keep it.
madam president, high representative, the decision of the eu to lift sanctions against myanmar in support of the democratic transition was right. regrettably, since then the situation of myanmar’s muslim rohingya and christians has not improved. there is now strong evidence that the crimes against the rohingya could amount to genocide. last year, in this very chamber, you said there is no real border between external and internal events, and so there must be no real border between our external and internal action. i agreed with you then, and i still do today. the people who committed the brutal attacks on paris and brussels were radicalised because they saw the world divided between us and them. we must defeat this pernicious ideology, but in order to do so we must shape our actions to demonstrate our values. i urge you today to put the situation in myanmar back on the agenda. if no progress is made in the coming weeks with the new government, then we must be prepared to reintroduce a tough sanctions policy.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, since the 1994 war ended we are sadly all too familiar with the occasional recurrence of hostilities, particularly sniper activity along the line of contact. this most recent offensive is, however, quite unprecedented and appears to have been a full-scale mobilisation of azerbaijani forces across the entire line in an attempt to retake territory, with many casualties. i am pleased that the ceasefire is holding and i encourage an immediate return to the negotiating table under the auspices of the minsk process. the use of advanced russian weaponry by azeri forces, such as smerch rocket launchers, shows us that the policies of putin are once again at play in his so-called spheres of influence. we must also bear in mind the prevailing low oil price and the domestic effects that this is having on aliyev’s strategy to create an external military diversion. in a week in which populism triumphed over diplomacy in the dutch referendum concerning ukraine’s free trade agreement, we should be reminded of the very real potential for destabilisation on our borders if we are unable to act in a cohesive and coordinated way in europe.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, i say to the commissioner, there is much we can agree on in responding to this situation. it is tragic that a ceasefire which has lasted in general so well since the mid-1990s should fall apart so rapidly decades later. it reminds us, i hope, of the precariousness of peace and the horrors of conflict. and though maybe you and i disagree on the role that these institutions should play – maybe i see the united nations as more important than the european union – you are certainly correct in suggesting that it is our responsibility to do whatever we can. all nations, and indeed the united nations, must make urgent representations to ensure that basic things, such as civilians not being targeted, are respected. it is vital, too, that simple measures such as the repatriation of bodies actually happen, not because those things change anything of themselves but because they perhaps provide a focal point from which peace can build and a form of trust can be created. there is a ray of hope that another precarious ceasefire has begun. long may that last, and may it last much longer than the two decades of the previous ceasefire.
madam president, may i start, as chair of the eu delegation for relations with the south caucasus, by echoing the very words spoken today by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union. it is far too easy to take a position and apportion blame. she has not done so and i will seek not to do so either. what happened is actually no surprise. the situation was unsustainable and bore the inherent danger of the resumption of hostilities. what happened was bound to take place. my message to my armenian friends is that the status quo is not in your interests – not in the short term, not in the long term. my message to my azeri friends, with whom we hope to resume interparliamentary dialogue, is that the fact that you are frustrated with the situation does not mean that the osce’s long—protracted confidence—building measures are superfluous, if only to prevent an accidental escalation. you can help in this respect. my message to both is that you are the ones that have the primary responsibility to find reasonable compromises, based on international law. there is no external actor that can do this in your place, certainly not the one that is selling both of you bullets.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, this report and the whole process of the european security strategy ultimately seeks to create a single and cohesive foreign policy for all 28 very different member states within the european union. this fundamental rebalancing of member states’ sovereignty is completely unacceptable. whilst cooperation is welcome, this continent has nato, the osce and the un to facilitate better understanding between european nations. ideally, these organisations are not distracted by the political and economic baggage that comes from european union membership. the united kingdom remains a global power with international interests and obligations and can never fit comfortably into such a straitjacket. indeed, president de gaulle himself said as much when vetoing britain’s first two applications to join the then european economic community. the best way to secure british security, and indeed the security of the 27 other member states, is through institutions away from the european union, where genuine multilateral cooperation can place, rather than the current subservience to eu institutions who have their own – and very different – logic and designs.
mr president, the global strategy is meant to update and replace the european security strategy, and the challenge for the high representative/vice-president is to make it more strategic, thereby helping to make the people of europe safer. whilst i thank ms kalniete, i think this parliament’s report, in total, only partly helps to do this. it is right to identify genuine shared foreign policy interests and the new challenges. my own group has properly focused our amendments on the concept of human security and on the need for further arms control. we stress the international diplomacy necessary to sustain efforts for global climate action, and we reiterate that there is no solution to the challenge of international migration without the first emphasis being on conflict resolution and international development. tonight i want to argue that we should not fight shy of berlin plus defence cooperation, which cannot, and must not, be deliberately misrepresented as a european army. those who seek more ambition for eu foreign and security policy must also recognise that this encompasses more ambitious eu security cooperation. why shouldn’t europe be ready to undertake peacekeeping if a permanent peace could be established in syria or even in the palestinian territories? surely recent attacks have removed any excuse against greater cooperation in counter-terrorism and intelligence-sharing. tonight we have heard from some who insist that this can only be achieved through institutional change, and others who resist it altogether. i simply say that this can be done in full complementarity for the eu countries which are also members of nato. but inside or outside nato, it does require a commitment to improve capabilities, and that is an issue of political will in europe’s national capitals to improve our individual – as well as our collective – response, not in eu institutions alone. strategies are about words. they can be good words, but they have to be good words that lead to good action and to better outcomes. that is the ultimate test of europe’s new global strategy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur particularly for listening to, and including, so much of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) opinion in his report. back in march, the un convened for the 60th session of the commission on the status of women. members of the un discussed and debated a number of key points pertaining to the equality of women and men, and the result was an ambitious document. this included issues around violence against women. the femm committee opinion calls on the governments of the five states to fully implement the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and demands that they treat violence against women as a criminal offence. i would like to acknowledge that in some of those states some significant work has been done and some progress made. across the five states, violence against women has been described by the un as prolific and pervasive; one third of girls report domestic violence as part of their lives. this is worse in rural areas. so we welcome the close attention paid to the area of improving access to land, including equal opportunities to buy and invest. as well as guaranteeing inheritance rights, land ownership rights are essential if women are to be helped out of poverty.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, after two years in this parliament we have finally agreed on something. i agree with you about the timing of this debate, and it is bizarre that, of the 751 members of european parliament, there are just 12 of us here for this debate. perhaps we are the dirty dozen. the timing of this report highlights the precise reasons why the united kingdom should not entrust the most vital duty of state – the defence of the realm – to the institutions of the european union. while the eu reviews its overall grand strategy, it is already deciding upon regional strategies. how can this lead to anything but confused and muddled policy—making? it is precisely this kind of lack of capacity in joined—up thinking within the eu that, rather than acting as an enhancer of british security, actually impedes it. so it seems to me that on uk referendum day, 23 june 2016, the british public will be asked to undermine the proven experienced ability of member states in favour of an eu that is, quite frankly, hell—bent on developing these very same capabilities.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, last september frans timmermans stood before the plenary to talk about the immigration and refugee crisis and dramatically announced that winter was coming. well, as the days get longer and the blossom and leaves appear on the trees, we can now see that summer is coming. the international organisation for migration has estimated that eight times more people crossed the seas to come to eu countries in the first three months of 2016 compared to the first three months of 2015. all indications are that the numbers arriving this summer will surpass previous years, many fleeing the horrors of terrorism and barbarism that still exist, but others understandably pursuing a better life in our countries. none of us wants to see another summer like the last, wondering if the public support for the schengen area or the public’s confidence in our institutions or the public sympathy can last another summer like the last. and whilst the challenge may not change, what does need to change is our attitude and our response. this summer is a chance to show that we have learned the lessons of failure from 2015. and while mr. tusk admits that not all agreements are perfect, i have to say that much has come out of the council and the commission to tackle the crisis which my political group has called for and supports: measures to better guard the external border; enhancing the schengen information system; building a more efficient returns and readmission programme, and taking on the human traffickers. however, other decisions have been made which may make some of us feel better but may store up more problems for the future. and while i have huge admiration for the way that the turkish nation has received, administered and housed over 2.7 million refugees, as mr tusk admitted, many of us still have serious concerns about the eu-turkey deal on a practical level, on a legal level and (some) on an ethical level. time will tell if those concerns are allayed. but even as the german chancellor and the european commission hailed the deal with turkey, questions are being asked in other countries. we live in an age of instant messaging and social media, and we have to realise that as one entry point becomes less accessible, messages will be sent back telling others to try alternative routes via italy, spain or malta, to name a just few. moving on to last week’s communication from the commission on the review of the dublin system, we saw a mixed bag: two very different options for reform. one option that reinvents the wheel and centralises asylum applications and distribution. the other, which seeks to make the wheel that we have turn better, offers some improvements to help states on the front line. or to put it another way, now we face a clear decision between choosing an option shrouded in idealism but which has little chance of success, and one based on realism and making the situation better. i suspect the general public would prefer that we choose pragmatism over idealism. so, rather than an idealistic grand plan or what mr tusk calls a ‘golden key’, let us make the rules that we have work properly. let us enhance and improve the laws and agencies already in place, not scrap and replace them through desperation. let us put our efforts and our money into controlling our borders; returning those who are not fleeing persecution or war or disaster – of course understandably coming for a better economic life – but allowing them to apply through existing legal migration channels; providing dignified detention conditions; speeding up asylum procedures and getting meaningful and voluntary commitment from member states about helping refugees closer to their homes, or directly resettling the most vulnerable from conflict regions. but let us show anyone looking to come to eu countries that we have asylum systems which are firm but fair, based on compassion and pragmatism. so my message to this house, to the commission and to member states over the next few weeks is a simple one: summer is coming. we do not have time to reinvent the wheel, but we do have time to fix it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i see that the president of the commission looks across to me – not for an answer, but with a knowing smile. look, we can all try to be the president of the commission, but actually the issue here is pragmatism. it is all very well you coming up and saying to me that we need some grand plan and we must impose solutions on member states, but you have seen the reactions in member states. mr sulík from my group asked a very pertinent question when he asked: what do politicians do when the vast majority of the voters in their member states do not want a solution imposed by the eu? what did mr pittella say? mr pittella said that they have to accept the decisions of the eu. i am afraid that is not the way forward. the way forward is to sit down with all the member states and ask what they can all meaningfully do. they all want to offer solutions instead of having a solution imposed on them.
blue-card question.– mr verhofstadt, you and i will always disagree politically, but i have to agree with your honesty here. you are saying what former president of the commission, roy jenkins – a british politician– was saying, which is that there are now only two clear and consistent positions as regards britain’s membership of the european union: all in or all out. i admire your honesty for standing up and saying as much. would you agree with me that the signals – be they smoke signals or, indeed, hand signals – coming out of this place indicate the understanding that the british people’s patience with the eu institutions has finally run out?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i am very surprised. we are here in what i have been told repeatedly is the home of european democracy, so surely we could have taken the opportunity this morning to celebrate the dutch referendum last week, in which the people said ‘no’ to eu enlargement, ‘no’ to the deal with the ukraine, and no doubt had it been turkey, an even bigger number of people would have said ‘no’ to turkish accession. it was a victory for democracy but, in particular, it was a victory for a little organisation called geenstijl, a group of young bloggers who managed to get together 427 000 signatures. so it was also a victory for direct democracy, in the week when we remember that gianroberto casaleggio, the genius behind the five star movement in italy, has died. this, ladies and gentlemen, is the new politics. we were told by mr juncker that if the dutch voted ‘no’ it would be a disaster, but he has not mentioned it today at all. indeed, his predecessor, mr van rompuy, my old mate, says we should just ignore the dutch and carry on blithely. so, what we are seeing is the big battalions of vested self-interest doing their best to completely ignore the will of the dutch people. i think things are changing. i do not believe these institutions can survive 21st-century technology. i think the will of the people is changing politics in a way that makes all of you in this room deeply fearful, and so you should be. as we, in the united kingdom, enter the final countdown of our referendum, all eyes are on this turkish deal. what we see is the bosses of the eu bowing and scraping before mr erdoğan, who gleefully walks all over them and tramples over human rights at every level. mr juncker tells us this morning that we are making progress. let us just examine that. 1.8 million people have come to the eu in the last 18 months and we have sent back 300. it does not sound like it is going very well to me. the one group that will be pleased, though, are isis. they have now managed to put 5 000 of their operatives into the european continent, according to the boss of europol: something that should send a shiver down our collective spines. i have to say that, in the end, i think it is what the british referendum will turn on. i think we will vote for brexit, and the reason is we will vote to put our own safety first. it is going to be as it was in the netherlands last week – a battle of people versus the politicians. you may have the big money, the big businesses and goldman sachs, but we have got our armies of bloggers. in the end the people’s will is going to prevail. this place will not survive. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am no fan of mr putin, but i am equally not very keen on going to war with mr putin. it strikes me as being a very silly idea. what did we do? we encouraged the overthrow of a corrupt but democratically-elected leader in ukraine. we, in effect, have poked the russian bear with a stick and we are surprised when he reacts. we should not be. i think we should all have our own individual nation-state democracies, and i want a europe, mr eriksson, where we trade together, cooperate together, work together, are friends and good neighbours with each other. what i do not want is that flag, an anthem, and all these presidents. i do not want political union. i want genuine european friendship.
blue-card question.– would you like to either clarify, or maybe join with your leader, mr pittella, in the comments that he made earlier? i would be interested in your opinion. do you agree with him that it is selfish of nation states to decide how many refugees they take? do you agree with him that member states should be forced to take certain numbers? do you join with me in condemning the lack of respect that a leader of a group which includes the british labour party shows to independent nation states as a disgrace? would you agree?
madam president, last week frontex guards dressed up like paramilitary forces and deported 200 migrants from greece: clearly a staged show of force to pretend the eu-turkey blackmail deal is a success. the same day as 200 migrants were deported, another 300 entered greece. do you really believe the people are being fooled so easily? the truth is that since the blackmail deal, another 5 000 migrants have been smuggled into greece. we had a million migrants enter the eu last year alone. how are you going to hold back the next tsunami of migrants? we have to take back control of our own borders. it is truly worrying to see the uk border forces committing to this farce. our own border force is understaffed and underfunded. other countries have hundreds of patrol boats; the uk’s coastguard has a mere five, two of which were sent to the mediterranean. this is a symbolic gesture but has left the uk’s borders open and vulnerable. the money – the british taxpayers’ money – given over to turkey for this blackmail deal could have bought 80 border force cutters to keep my country safe. we cannot let this happen. we have handed our keys over to the eu, so therefore we must brexit.
madam president, on steel: this is a key strategic sector, jobs are on the line and urgent actions are needed. we must also be sensitive to the impact on other sectors. anti-dumping measures are vital, and we stand ready in the ecr and in the uk to make them effective. on migration there is no easy solution. the turkey deal is not perfect, but it may help. those in the schengen zone especially need long-term plans to break the link abused by people-traffickers and to have proper border management systems. but the eu cannot afford to throw endless money or dangle promises of visa-free travel to third countries as some sort of reward for cooperation. the uk is not in the schengen zone, and people should stop scaremongering the people of britain about the impact of the negotiations with turkey. migrants are not criminals, but chaos on borders can be exploited by terrorists. we live in an international world and we are stronger when we work together against crime.
mr president, i share many of the human rights concerns expressed in the house, but let us be very honest in this house today: this deal is predicated on solidarity. my first question to the council president is very simple. we in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), which i chair, interviewed the commission president’s trouble-shooter, maarten verwey, and he reported to us very honestly. he said there were 30 asylum processors in the camps. this is a very backbreaking task that the commission has, and i respect the men and women of the commission for the task that they have to do. but i say to the council president, in respect of the speech that he gave earlier, with all the human rights concerns and all the other organisational concerns: is he going to assure us today that the member states ultimately will supply the resources that we need to make this work and that all of these safeguards will be in place? the devil is in the detail to make this work, and respect for human rights needs to be ensured.
mr president, on behalf of the ecr group, i rise to propose an adjournment of the vote on the resolution on the situation in poland under rules 185 and 192. commissioner timmermans travelled to poland last week for dialogue with the polish government. by all accounts, this was very constructive and mr timmermans is returning again in a few days’ time for more dialogue. i propose that we postpone this vote until after those meetings have taken place. surely this house would rather see an amicable solution found to the situation that involves dialogue rather than petty and cheap mudslinging. if this resolution is genuinely an attempt by this chamber to assist in the resolution of this matter in an amicable way, then it is in all our interests to move forward in talks between the polish government and the commission. if this is not a politically driven resolution, then i believe this house can agree to this simply modest request. (applause)
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with an application to the european globalisation adjustment fund. the report concerned the volvo group truck operation and 647 workers were being made redundant workers. the european globalisation fund provides financial support to groups of workers who have lost their jobs due to the impacts of globalisation and recession. the european commission provides a portion of the fund which is then matched by the relevant government. however the fund has been subject to significant controversies in the past. money has been used to fund existing supports for redundant workers rather than additional supports. workers were not adequately involved in the roll out of the programmes. worst of all, tens of millions of euros have been returned to the european commission unspent due to failure of government to properly run the programmes. on a number of occasions more than 40% of the eu funding for specific programmes has been returned unspent. this is absolutely unacceptable and highlights the irish government’s lack of action or care on such vital funding issues. this apathetic and incompetent attitude is unacceptable and is something that i will continue to raise on an eu level.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case, at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of sweden, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against giving eur 1 793 710 to swedish workers who had been made redundant. the unelected and unaccountable eu has no right to spend british taxpayers’ money in this way.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against giving eur 1 793 710 to swedish workers who had been made redundant. the unelected and unaccountable eu has no right to spend british taxpayers’ money in this way.
in writing. – ukip voted against giving eur 1 793 710 to swedish workers who had been made redundant. the unelected and unaccountable eu has no right to spend british taxpayers’ money in this way.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that eu expenditure is closely scrutinised on the basis of value for money for taxpayers and i do not believe the european globalisation adjustment fund is an efficient tool that offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market. the united kingdom government has never availed itself of funding under the egf due to its inefficiency and i believe it is time that money spent under the egf was put to better use. for these reasons i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures, and so i voted in favour of this application. i regret that the uk government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of eu funds - which will contribute to helping 500 former volvo trucks workers reintegrate into the labour market by providing them with personalised assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which regards an uncontroversial mobilisation of funds.
in writing. – ukip voted against giving eur 1 793 710 to swedish workers who had been made redundant. the unelected and unaccountable eu has no right to spend british taxpayers’ money in this way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of funds because the case fully meets the requirements set out in the european globalisation adjustment regulation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against giving eur 1 793 710 to swedish workers who had been made redundant. the unelected and unaccountable eu has no right to spend british taxpayers’ money in this way.
written. ‒ globalisation has caused major structural changes in the flows of world trade. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the redundancy of 647 workers is a challenge, especially for older workers from the target group, who will face difficulties in finding a job in the future due to the lack of skills required in the regional labour market. i believe that there is a need to support workers who have been declared redundant and self-employed people who have stopped their activity because of these major structural changes, and the purpose of the european globalisation adjustment fund is precisely that. in view of the above, i support the report by mr victor negrescu on the mobilisation of eur 1 793 710 representing 60% of the total cost.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against giving eur 1 793 710 to swedish workers who had been made redundant. the unelected and unaccountable eu has no right to spend british taxpayers’ money in this way.
in writing. ‒ this procedure relates to the mobilisation of much-needed funding for the re-integration of 500 workers who were made redundant from volvo group truck operation emea. i have always supported use of the egf, and it is sickening that the tory government refuses to apply for the funding when there has been just cause for its use.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which regards an uncontroversial mobilisation of funds.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report which was technical by nature but contained some very positive provisions, specifically in relation to releasing up much needed funds for the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case, at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against giving the unelected and unaccountable eu commission an extra eur 380 000 to help implement the globalisation adjustment fund. british taxpayers should not be forced to fund eu institutions to hand out our money for workers made redundant across europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against giving the unelected and unaccountable eu commission an extra eur 380 000 to help implement the globalisation adjustment fund. british taxpayers should not be forced to fund eu institutions to hand out our money for workers made redundant across europe.
in writing. – ukip voted against giving the unelected and unaccountable eu commission an extra eur 380 000 to help implement the globalisation adjustment fund. british taxpayers should not be forced to fund eu institutions to hand out our money for workers made redundant across europe.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that eu expenditure is closely scrutinised on the basis of value for money for taxpayers and i do not believe the european globalisation adjustment fund is an efficient tool that offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market. the united kingdom government has never availed itself of funding under the egf due to its inefficiency and i believe it is time that money spent under the egf was put to better use. for these reasons i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures, and so i voted in favour of this application. i regret that the uk government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of eu funds, in this case for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. particularly welcome are the fact that the activities will help to make the application process for funds simpler - as well as improving general awareness of the european globalisation fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which regards an uncontroversial mobilisation of funds.
in writing. – together with my fellow ukip mep colleagues i voted against giving the unelected and unaccountable eu commission an extra eur 380 000 to help implement the globalisation adjustment fund. british taxpayers should not be forced to fund eu institutions to hand out our money for workers made redundant across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of funds because the case fully meets the requirements set out in the european globalisation adjustment fund regulation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against giving the unelected and unaccountable eu commission an extra eur 380 000 to help implement the globalisation adjustment fund. british taxpayers should not be forced to fund eu institutions to hand out our money for workers made redundant across europe.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes brought about by globalisation, the global financial and economic crisis and to help them re-enter the labour market. on 22 february 2016, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf. this proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 380 000 from the technical assistance fund to the commission to finance monitoring and information, to create a knowledge base interface and to advise member states on the use of egf funds, the implementation of accompanying measures and evaluation. in accordance with article 11 (1) of the egf regulation, each year, at the initiative of the commission, 0,5% of the maximum annual amount of the egf (i.e. eur 828 060 in 2016 prices) may be used for technical assistance. the croatian labour market is also facing a number of changes and challenges. although no egf co-financing has been requested so far, discussions have been held with the croatian egf authorities on sectors affected by globalisation (e.g. shipbuilding) and on the possibility of submitting applications to provide support to workers. in light of the above, i have voted in favour of the report of my colleague, representative andrei novakov.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against giving the unelected and unaccountable eu commission an extra eur 380 000 to help implement the globalisation adjustment fund. british taxpayers should not be forced to fund eu institutions to hand out our money for workers made redundant across europe.
in writing. ‒ eur 380 000 has been requested for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission to cover, inter alia, monitoring and data gathering as well as information, technical support and evaluation activities. this funding is necessary and i wish to allow access to this much-needed egf funding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which regards an uncontroversial mobilisation of funds.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation adjustment fund is an important tool that the eu deploys in order to support communities across europe who are experiencing harmful economic shifts, in the form of business and factory closures or job losses, due to the flux of global trade and transactions. this can come in the form of re-training programmes or re-development, and opens the door for civil society and social enterprises, as well as local authorities to get involved in rebuilding their communities that would otherwise have been abandoned to dereliction. in the run-up to the uk referendum on eu membership, it is especially important to highlight to british voters this important source of funding, particularly relevant to my constituents in the north west of england. the globalisation adjustment fund is one of the many enormous benefits of eu membership which we can potentially draw on and demonstrates the solidarity principle upon which the eu is founded.
in writing. ‒ i do not approve of the principle of this instrument, and therefore voted against the draft amending budget.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against approving an extra eur 100 million for the eu’s migration policy and eur 2 million for extra staff at europol. the eu has helped to create the refugee crisis by encouraging millions of people to come to europe and make the dangerous journey across the mediterranean. the eu has no right to make british taxpayers pay for its own failures. countries should work together on a bilateral basis to solve the refugee crisis and fight terrorism, but not through unelected and unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against approving an extra eur 100 million for the eu’s migration policy and eur 2 million for extra staff at europol. the eu has helped to create the refugee crisis by encouraging millions of people to come to europe and make the dangerous journey across the mediterranean. the eu has no right to make british taxpayers pay for its own failures. countries should work together on a bilateral basis to solve the refugee crisis and fight terrorism, but not through unelected and unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. – ukip voted against approving an extra eur 100 million for the eu’s migration policy and eur 2 million for extra staff at europol. the eu has helped to create the refugee crisis by encouraging millions of people to come to europe and make the dangerous journey across the mediterranean. the eu has no right to make british taxpayers pay for its own failures. countries should work together on a bilateral basis to solve the refugee crisis and fight terrorism, but not through unelected and unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the budget. it is important as it creates an emergency support mechanism to address humanitarian crises within the eu, and also to fund extra staff for the counter-terrorism unit at europol. the effective functioning of the eu on these issues is important for my constituents in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amendment. it will help create a budget structure for the proposed new instrument enabling us to use current eu budget funds for humanitarian aid within the eu. in addition, it was reinforce the staffing levels of the european counter-terrorism centre in europol. this is particularly pertinent given the recent attacks in brussels.
in writing. – ukip voted against approving an extra eur 100 million for the eu’s migration policy and eur 2 million for extra staff at europol. the eu has helped to create the refugee crisis by encouraging millions of people to come to europe and make the dangerous journey across the mediterranean. the eu has no right to make british taxpayers pay for its own failures. countries should work together on a bilateral basis to solve the refugee crisis and fight terrorism, but not through unelected and unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against approving an extra eur 100 million for the eu’s migration policy and eur 2 million for extra staff at europol. the eu has helped to create the refugee crisis by encouraging millions of people to come to europe and make the dangerous journey across the mediterranean. the eu has no right to make british taxpayers pay for its own failures. countries should work together on a bilateral basis to solve the refugee crisis and fight terrorism, but not through unelected and unaccountable eu institutions.
written. ‒ i support draft amending budget no 1/2016: new instruments for the provision of emergency support within the union. i think it is important to introduce a new instrument aimed at providing emergency support within the eu. in the event of an exceptional emergency with a significant humanitarian impact, the eu must be able to provide immediate support to that country in order to save lives, avoid suffering and preserve human dignity. support can be in the form of food, shelter, medicine, and so forth. in view of the current migration crisis, i support the european commission's assessment of allocating financial resources for this purpose, in order to create a structure within the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against approving an extra eur 100 million for the eu’s migration policy and eur 2 million for extra staff at europol. the eu has helped to create the refugee crisis by encouraging millions of people to come to europe and make the dangerous journey across the mediterranean. the eu has no right to make british taxpayers pay for its own failures. countries should work together on a bilateral basis to solve the refugee crisis and fight terrorism, but not through unelected and unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of this amending budget as we believe providing humanitarian aid inside the eu for the refugees fleeing conflict and poverty should be a priority and it is an area in which the eu can help. this mobilisation of funds does not increase the eu budget but will however help support the countries bearing the greatest burden as well as the refugees themselves. separately this amending budget reinforces the staffing levels of the european counter-terrorism centre in europol, to enable the agency to play a central role in the fight against terrorism in the eu, in particular in the light of the recent terrorist attacks in paris and brussels. again this is a priority area and we support european co-operation to prevent terrorist attacks.
in writing. – i voted against this nomination to the court of auditors on the grounds that none of the candidates including samo jereb, held the required level of professional qualifications or expertise that would be required to satisfactory fulfil the post. my parties’ policy has always been about transparency, accountability and diversity on all boards, including state boards. in ireland, we have seen first had the corrosive culture of cronyism. we are still seeing it in the cronyism of debacle which is currently occurring around government formations. furthermore, despite concerns being raised by the european parliament on a number of occasions, all 6 candidates nominated were men. this is completely unacceptable and serves only to undermine any positive advances which have been made in recent years to increase the number of women in public life. sinn fein will have no hand or part in any such regressive, duplicitous or purposely vague moves. the society we are aiming for is one that is real, meaningful and where issues such as gender equality will be truly tackled and where cronyism is confined to the political dustbin of life.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should be a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i abstained on this appointment.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors plays a vital role in the institutions, being in charge of the audit of the eu’s finances and, as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving the financial management of the eu as well as acting as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the eu’s half a billion citizens. in my view, it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional backgrounds, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgment are all important for considerations. in the case of samo jereb i have chosen not to support his nomination because i do not believe that he did not fulfil the criteria i described above. however, in light of the support that he has received from the european parliament today, i must add that despite lacking the necessary language skill, he appears to be very competent and i wish him the best of luck in his nomination.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. – i voted against this nomination to the court of auditors on the grounds that none of the candidates including mihails kozlovs held the required level of professional qualifications or expertise that would be required to satisfactory fulfil the post. my parties’ policy has always been about transparency, accountability and diversity on all boards, including state boards. in ireland, we have seen first had the corrosive culture of cronyism. we are still seeing it in the cronyism of debacle which is currently occurring around government formations. furthermore, despite concerns being raised by the european parliament on a number of occasions, all 6 candidates nominated were men. this is completely unacceptable and serves only to undermine any positive advances which have been made in recent years to increase the number of women in public life. sinn fein will have no hand or part in any such regressive, duplicitous or purposely vague moves. the society we are aiming for is one that is real, meaningful and where issues such as gender equality will be truly tackled and where cronyism is confined to the political dustbin of life.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should be a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i abstained on this appointment.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. ‒ as i’ve mentioned before, the european court of auditors plays a vital role in the institutions, being in charge of the audit of the eu’s finances and, as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving the financial management of the eu as well as acting as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the eu’s half a billion citizens. in my view, it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional backgrounds, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgment are all important for considerations. in this case, i abstained, not because i believed that mihails performed badly in his interview or that his cv does not fit into the criteria that i have set out, but the ongoing process in the regional court in latvia raises concerns for me. nonetheless, i wish him luck with his nomination after having received approval in this place.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. – i voted against this nomination to the court of auditors on the grounds that none of the candidates including jan gregor held the required level of professional qualifications or expertise that would be required to satisfactory fulfil the post. my parties’ policy has always been about transparency, accountability and diversity on all boards, including state boards. in ireland, we have seen first had the corrosive culture of cronyism. we are still seeing it in the cronyism of debacle which is currently occurring around government formations. furthermore, despite concerns being raised by the european parliament on a number of occasions, all 6 candidates nominated were men. this is completely unacceptable and serves only to undermine any positive advances which have been made in recent years to increase the number of women in public life. sinn fein will have no hand or part in any such regressive, duplicitous or purposely vague moves. the society we are aiming for is one that is real, meaningful and where issues such as gender equality will be truly tackled and where cronyism is confined to the political dustbin of life.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should be a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i abstained on this appointment.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and, as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, and their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. ‒ as i’ve mentioned before, the european court of auditors plays a vital role in the institutions, being in charge of the audit of the eu’s finances and, as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving the financial management of the eu as well as acting as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the eu’s half a billion citizens. in my view, it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional backgrounds, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgment are all important for considerations. for jan gregor, i could not support his nomination due to his poor performance during the interview.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and, as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, and their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. – i voted against this nomination to the court of auditors on the grounds that none of the candidates including ladislav balko held the required level of professional qualifications or expertise that would be required to satisfactory fulfil the post. my parties’ policy has always been about transparency, accountability and diversity on all boards, including state boards. in ireland, we have seen first had the corrosive culture of cronyism. we are still seeing it in the cronyism of debacle which is currently occurring around government formations. furthermore, despite concerns being raised by the european parliament on a number of occasions, all 6 candidates nominated were men. this is completely unacceptable and serves only to undermine any positive advances which have been made in recent years to increase the number of women in public life. sinn fein will have no hand or part in any such regressive, duplicitous or purposely vague moves. the society we are aiming for is one that is real, meaningful and where issues such as gender equality will be truly tackled and where cronyism is confined to the political dustbin of life.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should be a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i abstained on this appointment.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances, and as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, and their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. ‒ as i’ve mentioned before, the european court of auditors plays a vital role in the institutions, being in charge of the audit of the eu’s finances and, as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving the financial management of the eu as well as acting as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the eu’s half a billion citizens. in my view, it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional backgrounds, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgment are all important for considerations. i could not support the re-election of mr. balko in the vote; despite his experience, his poor presentation in the committee was surprisingly sub-par for someone with such experience in the field.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances, and as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, and their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. – i voted against this nomination to the court of auditors on the grounds that none of the candidates including janusz wojciechowski held the required level of professional qualifications or expertise that would be required to satisfactory fulfil the post. my parties’ policy has always been about transparency, accountability and diversity on all boards, including state boards. in ireland, we have seen first had the corrosive culture of cronyism. we are still seeing it in the cronyism of debacle which is currently occurring around government formations. furthermore, despite concerns being raised by the european parliament on a number of occasions, all 6 candidates nominated were men. this is completely unacceptable and serves only to undermine any positive advances which have been made in recent years to increase the number of women in public life. sinn fein will have no hand or part in any such regressive, duplicitous or purposely vague moves. the society we are aiming for is one that is real, meaningful and where issues such as gender equality will be truly tackled and where cronyism is confined to the political dustbin of life.
in writing. ‒ i believe in democracy and transparency, and therefore i believe that my vote on this matter should be a matter of public record. in that spirit, i wish to confirm that i voted against this appointment.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and, as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, and their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
in writing. ‒ as i’ve mentioned before, the european court of auditors plays a vital role in the institutions, being in charge of the audit of the eu’s finances and, as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving the financial management of the eu as well as acting as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the eu’s half a billion citizens. in my view, it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, their professional backgrounds, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgment are all important for considerations. in the case of wojciechowski, i do not feel that he can fulfil these criteria and as a member of prawo i sprawiedliwość, which has shown its anti-democratic position, i do not believe that in the position in the court of auditors that mr wojciechowski would be impartial.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors is in charge of the audit of eu finances and, as the eu’s external auditor, it contributes to improving eu financial management and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. it is vitally important that candidates for the court are selected based on their suitability for the position, and their professional background, language skills and the ability to exercise independent judgement are important considerations.
mr president, the east of england is the bread basket of britain, and i have received hundreds of emails from my local farmers about glyphosate, the weed killer many gardeners know as roundup. it is the only product available to control weeds such as black grass. it is vital to no-till regimes that enhance soil quality and it is crucial for maintaining crop yields of wheat, barley and rape. the environmental impact of losing glyphosate would be enormous, as would be the effect on food production. we need farmers to produce the food for our growing population and they tell us that glyphosate is not a luxury, it is essential. european expert scientists have concluded that the product is not carcinogenic to humans, but people are concerned and it is right that research should continue. despite all this, socialist meps were trying to demand an immediate ban now. i disagree. we should let our farmers and our scientists do their work, and this vote gives them time to come to a more rounded conclusion.
in writing. – i voted against this resolution on the eu approval process for the chemical glyphosate. i do not believe that any such process calling itself a scientific safety assessment can be based on unpublished, industry-sponsored and non-peer-reviewed data. given that iarc, the well-respected cancer expert group of the world health organisation, using publicly available, peer-reviewed and independent data based on its strict policy on conflicts of interest, found that glyphosate was ‘probably carcinogenic’ raises serious concerns that the european food safety authority (efsa) found contradictory results (‘unlikely’ to cause cancer) just months later. efsa claims that the reason for its differing conclusion is because it included data the who did not include, but this data was excluded from the who assessment precisely because it did not meet its standards on independent and peer-reviewed data. scientific assessment should not be based on secret industry data and any approval process of glyphosate should be halted until efsa releases the data it used to come to its conclusion. not to do so risks further undermining confidence in the eu approval process as a whole.
in writing. ‒ this was an incredibly difficult decision to take, and i found many constituents writing to me on both sides of the argument. i had to balance the public health concerns with the risks to farmers and crops if glyphosate does not continue to be used. the difficulty lies in assessing the two questions: to what extent is glyphosate dangerous? at what level does it become toxic? my understanding of the situation, having reviewed the evidence as best i can, is that glyphosate could be a carcinogen but that the levels encountered are so low as to present little danger. indeed, i note that glyphosate residues are pretty much even undetectable in food and water. on the whole, i did not see sufficient evidence to convince me that a ban would be necessary.
in writing. ‒ a ban on glyphosate would be highly problematic for farmers. as long as there is ongoing scientific debate on whether glyphosate is indeed carcinogenic, i will not support an immediate ban. further scientific research should be conducted. therefore i vote against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ there have been suggestions that the popular herbicide glyphosate could be carcinogenic – although it has been in widespread use for decades with no evidence of harm, and a number of studies find that used properly it represents no threat to human health. banning glyphosate would substantially increase farmers’ costs, and could result in the use of other herbicides which may even be less safe than glyphosate. it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions. and after all that, we should still be importing cheaper foreign food products that had been grown with the benefit of glyphosate. ukip does not support a ban given the very limited evidence of harm, but would support further research. we also believe that this decision should be made for the uk in the british parliament, not imposed from brussels.
in writing. ‒ there have been suggestions that the popular herbicide glyphosate could be carcinogenic – although it has been in widespread use for decades with no evidence of harm, and a number of studies find that used properly it represents no threat to human health. banning glyphosate would substantially increase farmers’ costs, and could result in the use of other herbicides which may even be less safe than glyphosate. it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions. and after all that, we should still be importing cheaper foreign food products that had been grown with the benefit of glyphosate. ukip does not support a ban given the very limited evidence of harm, but would support further research. we also believe that this decision should be made for the uk in the british parliament, not imposed from brussels.
in writing. – there have been suggestions that the popular herbicide glyphosate could be carcinogenic – although it has been in widespread use for decades with no evidence of harm, and a number of studies find that used properly it represents no threat to human health. banning glyphosate would substantially increase farmers’ costs, and could result in the use of other herbicides which may even be less safe than glyphosate. it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions. and after all that, we should still be importing cheaper foreign food products that had been grown with the benefit of glyphosate. ukip does not support a ban given the very limited evidence of harm, but would support further research. we also believe that this decision should be made for the uk in the british parliament, not imposed from brussels.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution. i am opposed to the renewal of the licence for the weed killer glyphosate, but parliament voted to renew it for a further seven years. i welcome the serious concerns highlighted in the resolution, such as a ban on its use close to public playgrounds and gardens, but it did not go as far as i wanted. i have received strong lobbying in opposition to glyphosate from my constituents in wales, and until the health and environmental concerns are dealt with, i cannot support its approval.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as i believe it is wrong to argue that this implementing measure fails to apply the precautionary principle and is incompatible with the terms of its basic act. it is scaremongering to claim that glyphosate-based products are not thoroughly checked before they can be sold to the public and that they do not undergo stringent scientific assessment. british farmers would experience a significant loss in their arable and horticultural yields were such products to be pulled from the market, and face a significant increase in costs in controlling weed growth.
in writing. ‒ as a firm proponent of evidence-based policy-making in the regulation of agricultural technologies, the uk delegation welcomes parliament’s decision to reject calls to ban glyphosate. the authorisation of active substances is based on the scientific evaluation of a rapporteur member state and efsa. this process views glyphosate to be safe, when used appropriately, and concludes that glyphosate is not carcinogenic. ignoring this advice would set a dangerous precedent and undermine the eu’s entire risk assessment system. however, the uk delegation still considers the basis for this objection resolution remains fundamentally flawed. it is incorrect to argue that the commission’s implementing measure fails to ensure a high level of protection and is incompatible with regulation 1107/2009. all active substances authorised for use undergo a comprehensive assessment to ensure they pose no unacceptable risk. moreover, the resolution misuses the precautionary principle, dismisses the existing regulatory framework for the sustainable use of pesticides and attempts to forge a link between glyphosate and potential endocrine disrupting properties despite both efsa and the usepa concluding that there is no evidence of such effect. for these reasons the uk delegation cannot support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ with 1.4 million farmed hectares across the east of england and gbp 998 million worth of income stemming from farming in my region in 2014, i understand the importance of listening to the views of our farmers. i received many letters emphasising the assistance provided to farmers by products containing glyphosate and i am grateful for them. i also received many representations from constituents raising concerns about its safety – and those of other chemical products – particularly as many people come into contact with them. that is why i voted for this report which will urge the commission to undertake further work to establish the level of any harm to health and the environment that is caused. my vote is not a vote against glyphosate itself and i do not want to ban farmers from using a popular herbicide without a substitute being available. the outcome does not ban the product, but simply denies a 15 year approval for its continued use at this stage. i think the responsible thing to do is seek approval for a shorter time span, undertake further scientific investigation, and vote for more robust safety assessments of any chemical which can potentially cause cancer.
in writing. ‒ it is important to emphasise that this vote in the european parliament is not a final or legally binding one: it merely offers a political opinion on the subject. the actual decision will be taken by representatives of the 28 eu member states in the european commission’s standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed. i recognise that the science is not entirely settled on glyphosate. therefore, it would not be right to ignore concerns and write a blank cheque for glyphosate through a standard 15-year re-authorisation with no conditions. in particular, the european chemicals agency is launching a review of glyphosate, which should report by the end of 2017. i felt it appropriate to support amendments calling for a compromise approach: a re-authorisation for 5-7 years. following a complex series of votes, with more than 50 conflicting amendments having been tabled, meps have chosen not to endorse the position taken by our environment committee, which had called for an outright ban. instead, our majority opinion was to suggest a seven-year approval, with some conditions attached. i think that position is reasonable in the circumstances, and voted in favour of it.
in writing. – there have been suggestions that the popular herbicide glyphosate could be carcinogenic – although it has been in widespread use for decades with no evidence of harm, and a number of studies find that used properly it represents no threat to human health. banning glyphosate would substantially increase farmers’ costs, and could result in the use of other herbicides which may even be less safe than glyphosate. it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions. and after all that, we should still be importing cheaper foreign food products that had been grown with the benefit of glyphosate. ukip does not support a ban given the very limited evidence of harm, but would support further research. we also believe that this decision should be made for the uk in the british parliament, not imposed from brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion to send a strong message that the precautionary principle must be strictly observed in the process of authorising chemical substances with direct impacts on humans and the environment. this is especially relevant in case of doubts as to whether glyphosate and its formulations are completely safe to use. this motion is not against a particular substance or product, but will ensure that a robust safety assessment process takes place and that europeans are safe from any adverse impacts from chemical products.
in writing. ‒ there have been suggestions that the popular herbicide glyphosate could be carcinogenic – although it has been in widespread use for decades with no evidence of harm, and a number of studies find that used properly it represents no threat to human health. banning glyphosate would substantially increase farmers’ costs, and could result in the use of other herbicides which may even be less safe than glyphosate. it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions. and after all that, we should still be importing cheaper foreign food products that had been grown with the benefit of glyphosate. ukip does not support a ban given the very limited evidence of harm, but would support further research. we also believe that this decision should be made for the uk in the british parliament, not imposed from brussels.
written. ‒ i support the report by colleagues pawel poc, kateřina konečná, bas eickhout, piernicole pedicini, marka demesmaeker, sirpe pietikäinen and frédérique ries on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance glyphosate. given that in march 2015 the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) classified glyphosate as 'probably carcinogenic to humans' and that 76% of the use of glyphosate is in agriculture, i consider it justified to call on the commission not to renew the approval of glyphosate. in addition, the use of glyphosate herbicides kills not only unwanted weeds, but also all plants and algae, bacteria and fungi, thus putting biodiversity and ecosystems at risk. the renewal of the approval of active substances shall be valid for a period of up to 15 years. the commission has also concluded that the use of glyphosate in food is not a risk to human health and the environment. by refusing to publish all scientific studies on the use of glyphosate, we are putting human health, animal health and the environment at risk. and the citizens of the republic of croatia are witnessing a pervasive malignancy, so even though the publication of the studies would potentially harm the commercial interests of the manufacturers, it is our duty to protect them.
in writing. ‒ there have been suggestions that the popular herbicide glyphosate could be carcinogenic – although it has been in widespread use for decades with no evidence of harm, and a number of studies find that used properly it represents no threat to human health. banning glyphosate would substantially increase farmers’ costs, and could result in the use of other herbicides which may even be less safe than glyphosate. it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions. and after all that, we should still be importing cheaper foreign food products that had been grown with the benefit of glyphosate. ukip does not support a ban given the very limited evidence of harm, but would support further research. we also believe that this decision should be made for the uk in the british parliament, not imposed from brussels.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this motion of objection pursuant to rule 106 regarding the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate, just as my socialist colleagues did when they voted in the envi committee. the labour party in the european parliament holds the position that genetically modified organisms – gmos – must be approached with caution and assessed from the point of view of their impacts on human health and the environment. this position has informed a number of recent plenary votes when i and other labour party meps opposed the authorisation of other strains of gmos; this is, inter alia, because of their links with glyphosate.. although not binding, i hope that the vote today will send a message to the commission and have them either reconsider their position, or disclose the scientific evidence that has been the basis for the positive classification of this chemical, a matter which i have brought up with them in a recent parliamentary question.
in writing. ‒ as a firm proponent of evidence-based policy-making in the regulation of agricultural technologies, i welcome parliament’s decision to reject calls to ban glyphosate. the authorisations of active substances are based on the scientific evaluation of a rapporteur member state and efsa. this process views glyphosate to be safe, when used appropriately, and concludes that glyphosate is not carcinogenic. ignoring this advice would set a dangerous precedent and undermine the eu’s entire risk assessment system. however, i still consider that the basis for this objection resolution remains fundamentally flawed. it is incorrect to argue that the commission’s implementing measure fails to ensure a high level of protection and is incompatible with regulation 1107/2009. all active substances authorised for use undergo a comprehensive assessment to ensure they pose no unacceptable risk. moreover, the resolution misuses the precautionary principle, dismisses the existing regulatory framework for the sustainable use of pesticides and attempts to forge a link between glyphosate and potential endocrine disrupting properties, despite both efsa and the usepa concluding that there is no evidence of such effect. for these reasons i cannot support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, labour meps have responded to the concerns voiced by the scientific community and the public with regard to the most popular herbicide, widely used in farming, gardening and in public spaces and thus very often open to direct contact with people. our aim now is to ensure a comprehensive evaluation of this substance with full regard paid to the safety of humans and the environment, in line with the precautionary principle.
mr president, today the fog around the intention of the european union to form, formulate and control a central military and defence capability was finally revealed. my only surprise is that this eu decision and this eu announcement today were made so close to the brexit date, given how contentious the subject is in the united kingdom. i chose to vote against every vote relating to the eu intention and ambition in defence and military capability and strategy. it is my strongly-held belief that defence and associated military resourcing decisions are those of a sovereign nation and its government. i do not support interference or ambitious future control in this domain by the european union.
in writing. – despite the vague name of the report ‘the eu in a changing global environment - a more connected, contested and complex’ the report itself is essentially calling for increased harmonisation, synergy, development and investment for eu military capabilities, and a closer relationship with nato. we voted against the report as a whole as we reject the militarisation of the eu, and the erosion of irish neutrality which is essentially what this report is calling for. sinn féin has long advocated a policy of active neutrality, rejecting participation in any military alliance and supporting an enhanced role for the united nations in resolving conflicts around the world. sinn féin has consistently called for a greater focus on solving the causes of conflict, such as political and economic inequality and instability and the absence of democracy. our own experience of conflict and conflict resolution has taught us that the path to peace is not to be found in increasing military capabilities but in dialogue, inclusivity and equality.
in writing. ‒ i could not in all conscience, as an mep elected on a mandate of withdrawal from the european union, support such a pro-eu report as this!
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. we firmly believe that both historic and contemporary security within europe is best secured through nato. this report was filled with calls for greater development of the eu’s role in these policy areas, including the establishment of common eu forces, an eu military hq and greater alignment of member state foreign policy to suit the eu’s interests. with regard to paragraph 6, ukip is fully committed to the 2% defence spending pledge, to which we are obliged to uphold through our nato membership and the current government have committed themselves to. there is no need for the eu to make any encouragements or statements in this area, as such we rejected its inclusion in the report. defence of the realm is the sovereign duty of the state and the whole review process of the eu’s new global strategy, to which this report is linked, represents the further erosion of member state sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. we firmly believe that both historic and contemporary security within europe is best secured through nato. this report was filled with calls for greater development of the eu’s role in these policy areas, including the establishment of common eu forces, an eu military hq and greater alignment of member state foreign policy to suit the eu’s interests. with regard to paragraph 6, ukip is fully committed to the 2% defence spending pledge, to which we are obliged to uphold through our nato membership and the current government have committed themselves to. there is no need for the eu to make any encouragements or statements in this area, as such we rejected its inclusion in the report. defence of the realm is the sovereign duty of the state and the whole review process of the eu’s new global strategy, to which this report is linked, represents the further erosion of member state sovereignty.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. we firmly believe that both historic and contemporary security within europe is best secured through nato. this report was filled with calls for greater development of the eu’s role in these policy areas, including the establishment of common eu forces, an eu military hq and greater alignment of member state foreign policy to suit the eu’s interests. with regard to paragraph 6, ukip is fully committed to the 2% defence spending pledge, to which we are obliged to uphold through our nato membership and the current government have committed themselves to. there is no need for the eu to make any encouragements or statements in this area, as such we rejected its inclusion in the report. defence of the realm is the sovereign duty of the state and the whole review process of the eu’s new global strategy, to which this report is linked, represents the further erosion of member state sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ defence policy is matter of national sovereignty, therefore i cannot support the elements of this report that seek a significant expansion of the eu role in this area. the nato alliance is the bedrock of european security and british defence policy, and i will not support anything that risks undermining that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not agree with the establishment of a common eu joint defence force or that the eu should have military units. there is strong support in wales for an eu civilian conflict prevention corps but this report did not expand that idea.
in writing. ‒ defence policy is matter of national sovereignty. while cooperation is important, the eu cannot and should not be allowed to expand its role in this area. in the uk, the nato alliance is the bedrock of british defence policy and a leading instrument of our national security. close cooperation with nato is also seen as vital in fulfilling uk strategic objectives as well as shared security and defence challenges. to call for a stronger eu role within the realm of security and defence is not only an infringement of national sovereignty, but it is also a threat to the uk’s security framework. of course cooperation is vital. in today’s environment, security threats are increasingly transnational in nature. indeed, threats such as terrorism and organised crime do not respect state boundaries and require coordinated responses. such coordination should however be left to the member states and national governments. not an increasingly centralised eu. nato is also a vital cornerstone of europe’s security policy and so any attempt to sidestep this organisation will be counterproductive and damaging to european security more broadly. it is for these reasons that i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out the eu’s foreign policy strategy for the years ahead. it emphasises the need to better link internal and external eu policy and touches on defence and trade policy, as well as more general foreign affairs points.
in writing. ‒ this report is vague and incoherent and adds little to the general debate on our changing global environment. i therefore voted against it. the report deals with important issues but does nothing in terms of finding realistic solutions.
in writing. – diane james and her fellow ukip meps voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. we firmly believe that both historic and contemporary security within europe is best secured through nato. this report was filled with calls for greater development of the eu’s role in these policy areas, including the establishment of common eu forces, an eu military hq and greater alignment of member state foreign policy to suit the eu’s interests. with regard to paragraph 6, ukip is fully committed to the 2% defence spending pledge, to which we are obliged to uphold through our nato membership and the current government have committed themselves to. there is no need for the eu to make any encouragements or statements in this area, as such we rejected its inclusion in the report. defence of the realm is the sovereign duty of the state and the whole review process of the eu’s new global strategy, to which this report is linked, represents the further erosion of member state sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which sets out the eu’s foreign policy strategy for the years ahead, noting particular complex and interrelated challenges such as the refugee crisis, state failures and climate change.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. we firmly believe that both historic and contemporary security within europe is best secured through nato. this report was filled with calls for greater development of the eu’s role in these policy areas, including the establishment of common eu forces, an eu military hq and greater alignment of member state foreign policy to suit the eu’s interests. with regard to paragraph 6, ukip is fully committed to the 2% defence spending pledge, to which we are obliged to uphold through our nato membership and the current government have committed themselves to. there is no need for the eu to make any encouragements or statements in this area, as such we rejected its inclusion in the report. defence of the realm is the sovereign duty of the state and the whole review process of the eu’s new global strategy, to which this report is linked, represents the further erosion of member state sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. we firmly believe that both historic and contemporary security within europe is best secured through nato. this report was filled with calls for greater development of the eu’s role in these policy areas, including the establishment of common eu forces, an eu military hq and greater alignment of member state foreign policy to suit the eu’s interests. with regard to paragraph 6, ukip is fully committed to the 2% defence spending pledge, to which we are obliged to uphold through our nato membership and the current government have committed themselves to. there is no need for the eu to make any encouragements or statements in this area, as such we rejected its inclusion in the report. defence of the realm is the sovereign duty of the state and the whole review process of the eu’s new global strategy, to which this report is linked, represents the further erosion of member state sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i ultimately voted in favour of this report because i think that the eu can play – and has played – a real and positive international role, capable of shaping development and deal with a rapidly changing global environment. however, i did not support paragraph 10, along with my labour colleagues, because i believe that now is not the right time for an ‘eu army’ or similar and that the way that military organisation is at present does not warrant this to be necessary.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which sets out the eu’s foreign policy strategy for the years ahead, with reference to particularly pertinent challenges such as the refugee crisis, state failures and climate change. i am particularly supportive of the assertion that we need a better link between external and internal eu policy.
in writing. – this report is disingenuous and self-serving. it is trying to advance misplaced eu ambitions in defence while appropriating aspects of our nato relationship. it is seeking to claim commendable nato initiatives as its own (notably the 2% gdp defence spending target). it advances an eu agenda on ‘eu strategic autonomy’; ‘a european intelligence capacity’; integrated military forces; ‘a permanent eu military hq’; an eu council of defence ministers; and pesco – all concepts of which we fundamentally disagree. the ecr group therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i thank my socialist and democratic colleagues for inserting into this report the important call to include a gender perspective in security, defence, and global governance policies. a perspective on gender equality is often pushed out by chauvinist ‘realpolitik’, and women are often under-represented. the european union must strive to put peace, human rights, sustainability and social justice at the heart of our developing global governance systems. i regret that the european parliament has so far failed to take a stand on the important issue of nuclear non-proliferation, arms reduction and multilateral disarmament, since the last npt conference in 2015. the eu must seek to engage and advance the ongoing un initiative on multilateral nuclear disarmament, and the european parliament must provide the union’s representatives with a mandate to do so.
in writing. ‒ i want the united kingdom to be out of the european union, and consequently voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. friendly relations and trade with central asia is something to be supported and encouraged, however we do not believe that the eu should have any role in doing this and take the view that an independent britain would be able to pursue friendly relations far more effectively outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. friendly relations and trade with central asia is something to be supported and encouraged, however we do not believe that the eu should have any role in doing this and take the view that an independent britain would be able to pursue friendly relations far more effectively outside the eu.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. friendly relations and trade with central asia is something to be supported and encouraged, however we do not believe that the eu should have any role in doing this and take the view that an independent britain would be able to pursue friendly relations far more effectively outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i support the position of this report and all efforts to improve the economic, political and security situation in the central asian region, which is becoming ever more complex and fragile due to the increasing conflict of interest between russia and european countries in this area. this is an area of the world of growing economic importance and of strategic interest to the uk, so i welcome the suggestions in this report for enhancing mutual relations.
in writing. ‒ central asia is vital for uk economic and security interests. i consequently support efforts to improve the economic, political and security situation in the region, which is becoming more complex and fragile due to the increasing conflict of interest between russia and the eu, as well as the threat from extremist groups. in line with the uk government’s commitment to defending human rights objectives globally, this report also placed significant emphasis on the need to improve the lives of women. while in some central asian states, steps are being taken to fully implement the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, the situation of women in this region has nevertheless been described by the un as prolific and pervasive. indeed, one third of girls report domestic violence as part of their lives and in rural areas, women remain in a state of severe disadvantage and poverty. calling on these states to address such issue is therefore a crucial step in ensuring the lives of women are improved. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the strong strategic, political and economic interest of the eu in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the central asian countries, based on shared values and the existing partnership and cooperation agreements between the eu and kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and uzbekistan. importantly, the report stresses that respect for human rights and democracy must be at the core of the eu strategy, with the human rights situations in these countries, and turkmenistan, remaining of concern.
in writing. ‒ the eu has strong strategic, political and economic interests throughout central asia and it is important that we continue to foster links with that part of the world. this report is fair and well-balanced and i accordingly voted in favour.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. friendly relations and trade with central asia is something to be supported and encouraged, however we do not believe that the eu should have any role in doing this and take the view that an independent britain would be able to pursue friendly relations far more effectively outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it stresses the strong strategic, political and economic interest of the eu in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the central asian countries, based on shared values and the existing partnership and cooperation agreements. importantly, the report stresses that respect for human rights and democracy must be at the core of the eu strategy, with the human rights situations in these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it stresses the strong strategic, political and economic interest of the eu in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the central asian countries, based on shared values and the existing partnership and cooperation agreements between the eu and kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and uzbekistan. importantly, the report stresses that respect for human rights and democracy must be at the core of the eu strategy, with the human rights situations in these countries, and turkmenistan, remaining of concern.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. friendly relations and trade with central asia is something to be supported and encouraged, however we do not believe that the eu should have any role in doing this and take the view that an independent britain would be able to pursue friendly relations far more effectively outside the eu.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague tamás meszerics on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia on the basis of shared values, i welcome the eu's strategic, political and economic interest in strengthening bilateral and multilateral relations with the countries of central asia. i also welcome the eu's strong interest in central asia being peaceful, prosperous, democratic, stable and inclusive and functioning as an economically and environmentally sustainable region, as stated in the 2007 strategy. .i believe that the eu special representative for central asia will make an important contribution to the implementation of the central asian strategy and to the shaping of relations with these countries by ensuring the consistency of the union's external action in the region and communicating the eu's position to political leaders and societies in central asia. i am concerned about the increasing number of laws in countries and regions restricting freedom of the media, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association, which are directed against the financing of civil society. in addition to promoting these freedoms, the eu must also make it a priority to promote freedom of religion or belief and the rights of women, minors and minorities. i'm not sure.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip completely rejects any notion of an eu foreign or defence policy. friendly relations and trade with central asia is something to be supported and encouraged, however we do not believe that the eu should have any role in doing this and take the view that an independent britain would be able to pursue friendly relations far more effectively outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i support the deeper engagement with the central asian states by the eu; important security and energy interests are at stake in this region, as well as the potential to expand democratic values otherwise not afforded to the people of this region. the deepening of such relations should not be pursued without proper recognition of the political context in the region.
in writing. ‒ in central asia the eu faces multiple issues, the european union has strong and increasing political, strategic and economic interests in the area and it is important that we use our shared values to help build these links to improve on the ties already established with kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and uzbekistan. however, as this report stresses, we also have lingering concerns over the issue of potential human rights abuses in this country. i am happy to back this report because it stresses that respect for human rights and democracy must be at the core of the eu strategy in this area. these are not pawns to be swapped for material gain. as an area where multiple outside players are taking an interest, both through improving transit links and the sale of natural resources, it is important that we all play a constructive role in bringing about improvements for the people of the region.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report’s reaffirmation that human rights and democracy must be at the core of the eu’s strategy in central asia, and i share the regret expressed at the overall lack of progress being made in the region. i would like to use this opportunity to raise the censorship and lack of freedom of expression in kazakhstan, and particularly that of the critical news organisation respublika that is currently suffering from persecution. the kazakh government is pursuing law suits in the us to try to force american companies to shut down respublika’s servers, which also raises great concern about internet freedoms more generally. the eu must take a stand to pressure kazakh authorities to stop this kind of abuse, and condition further cooperation on upholding human rights norms.
in writing. ‒ the zika virus outbreak is a tragedy, and we must all do what we can to help. although i was unable to vote in favour of the final resolution due to having problems with the specific text of the report, i abstained and of course agree with the principle of it.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully supports the fight against the zika virus. we support the scientific efforts that aim at providing a scientific explanation for the link between the virus and severe brain malformations reported in newborn children. ukip would not oppose funds designated to study this issue. however, we believe that initiatives of this kind should be decided at the national level, not by the unelected eu commission, so we have decided to abstain in this occasion.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully supports the fight against the zika virus. we support the scientific efforts that aim at providing a scientific explanation for the link between the virus and severe brain malformations reported in newborn children. ukip would not oppose funds designated to study this issue. however, we believe that initiatives of this kind should be decided at the national level, not by the unelected eu commission, so we have decided to abstain in this occasion.
in writing. – ukip fully supports the fight against the zika virus. we support the scientific efforts that aim at providing a scientific explanation for the link between the virus and severe brain malformations reported in newborn children. ukip would not oppose funds designated to study this issue. however, we believe that initiatives of this kind should be decided at the national level, not by the unelected eu commission, so we have decided to abstain in this occasion.
in writing. ‒ alongside my conservative colleagues, i strongly welcome demands for better and more effective prevention, surveillance and control mechanisms when combatting the zika virus. indeed, while the zika virus has been around for a number of years, a true understanding of the disease, particular in terms of when it is most fatal, is severely lacking. the need for more assertive and targeted action is therefore not only timely given the recent outbreak, but it is also clearly long overdue. as a virus that poses international risk, a coordinated approach is crucial. the eu possesses a public health function and can therefore serve as a useful platform to facilitate communication and if needed, to provide advice and any other information required by the member states. such collaboration will ensure a more efficient allocation of resources and subsequently make any response more effective and therefore successful when minimising the destructive effects of this disease. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which welcomes the eur 10 million set aside for research into zika but questions whether this is adequate for the scale of the challenge. the s&d priority is to ensure adequate resources are available for research into zika: research should focus on prevention, the development of a vaccine and tests for rapid diagnosis, and the link between zika and microcephaly. all available funding options should be used, including horizon 2020 and fp7.
in writing. ‒ our understanding of the zika virus is still in its infancy but the disease is undoubtedly of grave concern throughout the world. the eu is at the forefront of global medical research and it is also home to some of the world’s strongest economies. it is therefore essential that we play a lead role in researching and ultimately eliminating this frightening virus.
in writing. – ukip fully supports the fight against the zika virus. we support the scientific efforts that aim at providing a scientific explanation for the link between the virus and severe brain malformations reported in newborn children. ukip would not oppose funds designated to study this issue. however, we believe that initiatives of this kind should be decided at the national level, not by the unelected eu commission, so we have decided to abstain in this occasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it calls for the eu to support action on zika, in particular through support for research and development for treatments, diagnosis and vaccines.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to call for the eu to support action on zika, in particular through support for research and development for treatments, diagnosis and vaccines.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully supports the fight against the zika virus. we support the scientific efforts that aim at providing a scientific explanation for the link between the virus and severe brain malformations reported in newborn children. ukip would not oppose funds designated to study this issue. however, we believe that initiatives of this kind should be decided at the national level, not by the unelected eu commission, so we have decided to abstain in this occasion.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the eradication of the zika virus outbreak, which has caused an emergency on the international scene and has put the health of european citizens at risk. i share my concern that there is currently no vaccine or medicine to protect people from the zika virus and i call on all member states to increase laboratory capacity for early detection and diagnosis. furthermore, although the virus causes almost no or mild symptoms, it is known that it can infect the unborn child and potentially cause microcephaly, which would be devastating for the demographic picture in the republic of croatia, which already has a low fertility rate and a high proportion of the elderly in the total population. i welcome the commission's decision to mobilise medical teams and equipment in the event of emergencies within and outside the eu. we must be prepared for the transmission of the zika virus in the coming summer months. i therefore call on all relevant institutions to direct their efforts towards eradicating or at least preventing this epidemic.
in writing. ‒ ukip fully supports the fight against the zika virus. we support the scientific efforts that aim at providing a scientific explanation for the link between the virus and severe brain malformations reported in newborn children. ukip would not oppose funds designated to study this issue. however, we believe that initiatives of this kind should be decided at the national level, not by the unelected eu commission, so we have decided to abstain in this occasion.
in writing. ‒ i join my colleagues in this place to call for the eu to support action on the zika virus, which is sullying so many people’s lives across the world, and the risk to the eu – including the uk – is growing. it is problems such as this which call for internationalist action, and the eu represents a great opportunity, with its institutional set-up ready to be utilised for activities like this.
in writing. ‒ the zika virus outbreak has hit women and children in some of the most vulnerable countries in south america and the caribbean. the outbreak has exposed the severity of lack of access to sexual and reproductive health for women in many developing countries. the eu’s response must ensure prevention, and guarantee the health and safety of europeans. nevertheless, it must also reinforce a robust development cooperation policy which tackles the situation of women and the provision of maternal and sexual and reproductive health facilities.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that it is for the european parliament to tell the people of poland how their country should be run. these matters are sovereign to the polish people.
in writing. ‒ i vote against this resolution. the eu has no jurisdiction to criticise the polish government. poland is a sovereign nation with a democratically elected government. no dictates from the eu can tell the polish people how to run their own internal affairs.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip is seriously concerned at the level of interference by the commission in poland – in particular the use of the rule of law mechanism. we believe this sets a dangerous precedent in the further erosion of the sovereignty of eu member states. we do not take an opinion on the reforms being pursued by the newly elected polish government but firmly believe that this is a matter for the democratically elected government of poland and the constitutional courts to decide – not the unelected european commission.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip is seriously concerned at the level of interference by the commission in poland – in particular the use of the rule of law mechanism. we believe this sets a dangerous precedent in the further erosion of the sovereignty of eu member states. we do not take an opinion on the reforms being pursued by the newly elected polish government but firmly believe that this is a matter for the democratically elected government of poland and the constitutional courts to decide – not the unelected european commission.
in writing. ‒ my conservative colleagues and i have always had a consistent approach to situations in individual member states and the role that the european parliament has to play. article 17 of the tfeu states that member state compliance with eu law is a matter for the european commission (and the venice commission), and not the european parliament or any other eu institution. the commission has yet to give its final opinion on the matter and it is premature to pass judgement. i am afraid that this resolution by the european parliament is simply political posturing.
in writing. – diane james and her fellow ukip meps voted against this non-legislative report. ukip is seriously concerned at the level of interference by the commission in poland – in particular the use of the rule of law mechanism. we believe this sets a dangerous precedent in the further erosion of the sovereignty of eu member states. we do not take an opinion on the reforms being pursued by the newly elected polish government but firmly believe that this is a matter for the democratically elected government of poland and the constitutional courts to decide – not the unelected european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the venice commission has already spoken out loud over the unconstitutional nature of the laws on the media and the constitutional court. now it is high time for the polish government to comply with these recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to raise concerns regarding the rule of law in poland.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip is seriously concerned at the level of interference by the commission in poland – in particular the use of the rule of law mechanism. we believe this sets a dangerous precedent in the further erosion of the sovereignty of eu member states. we do not take an opinion on the reforms being pursued by the newly elected polish government but firmly believe that this is a matter for the democratically elected government of poland and the constitutional courts to decide – not the unelected european commission.
written. ‒ in late 2015, the law and justice (pis) party won the elections in poland and the current polish government has the strongest democratic mandate in the country's history since the fall of communism. the constitutional tribunal has been entrusted with the task of ensuring the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law, and has been entrusted with the task of ensuring the independence of the judiciary. i believe that respect for fundamental human freedoms, freedom of the media and the rule of law is the foundation of a modern and strong european union. the judicial system must be independent of any political option and encourage civil liberties. i believe that all member states must respect eu law and be prepared to cooperate fully with the eu institutions. it is in the interest of the whole european union to resolve the situation with poland as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report. ukip is seriously concerned at the level of interference by the commission in poland – in particular the use of the rule of law mechanism. we believe this sets a dangerous precedent in the further erosion of the sovereignty of eu member states. we do not take an opinion on the reforms being pursued by the newly elected polish government but firmly believe that this is a matter for the democratically elected government of poland and the constitutional courts to decide – not the unelected european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in order to share my grave concern for the situation in poland. the ongoing attack on the country’s constitutional court, on fundamental rights, and democratic values are worrying, and the eu and fellow member states must take action to dissuade the polish government from its current course of action. i am particularly worried about the attempts to legislate away women’s rights and gender equality generally and sexual and reproductive rights specifically. women must have access to healthcare and to abortion, and have complete freedom to choose. i stand in solidarity with women and feminist campaigners in poland protesting against the government initiative. we must engage in constant dialogue with polish civil society and women’s rights organisations in order to support them in their campaigns and demonstrate our solidarity.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, like mr voss i do not have the time to say all that i really feel, but i will just do it anyway. this is historic: let somebody say it. this is one of the biggest pieces of legislation parliament has ever enacted, and i think we should be thankful for something that parliament does very well, and that is quietly and deliberately, members of this house, the rapporteurs jan albrecht and marju lauristin – but let me just say it because i know all the work they put in – all the shadows, members who have sat here, ms reding and others – i realise i have just used up my whole two minutes now. but let me just say that this is what parliament does very well: to enact a piece of legislation which – yes, as mr voss said – still has some problems on the research side, on the issue of parental consent. we did not all agree with many of these very difficult issues, but at the end of the day we have a directive and a regulation which is the only one of its kind in the world, and i think for cross-border legislation, that is something of which we should be proud. it comes after four years of negotiation with the council, and for that it is a major achievement. the regulation gives eu citizens new positive rights, including the ability to know when your data has been hacked, the use of plain language in requests for personal data, the appointment of data protection officers, and the fines – which really were needed, because now people know that this is real legislation that will last and stand the test of time. the data protection directive will complement the regulation by providing new safeguards for all eu citizens and ensuring that protections are in place for the processing of data for law enforcement purposes. for my group, i am particularly proud that the directive has come with the package. this has meant that we have created a package which has been comprehensive. at the beginning of this process i think many felt that this could not happen, yet it has happened, and today we will vote the whole package instead of just one regulation. i think that is a great achievement for this parliament. i think it is one of which we should all be proud.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, data is the lifeblood of the global economy, and the use of data has totally transformed the way we work, live and socialise. it has become vital to our economic and security interests. however, we currently operate under a legal regime that was created before twitter, uber and amazon were twinkles in any billionaire’s eye. my group and i have at times had serious reservations about the content of these proposals and the direction negotiations took on certain issues, but i hope that, now we are at the end, a pragmatic and workable solution has been put in place. this data protection legislation will only last up to another 20 years, like the last, but if it is capable of establishing technology-neutral and principles-based rules, it will be successful. this regulation is without doubt a comprehensive change to many issues surrounding the processing of data, and the implementation of the regulation is key. what businesses do not want is heavy-handed regulation, and what consumers do not want are complicated rules that give no greater clarity on what their rights are. we – thankfully – ended up with a far more sensible and workable set of ideas, related to consent, fines, notification periods, scientific research, direct marketing in legitimate interests, and derogations for small and medium-sized businesses. these issues were key for my political group, and my hope is that the new rules will increase consumer trust and create a level playing field, legally across the eu, where businesses know exactly what they can and cannot do, which in turn will attract future investment in the digital single market from outside the eu and allow innovation and industry to flourish. both the data protection regulation and the law enforcement directive are about creating trust in our individual systems and therefore creating more trust for our eu cross-border cooperation.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, the uk already has effective data protection legislation. this eu legislation is designed to address less well-developed eu countries and bring them up to a similar standard. these proposals are being rushed through in order to bring into force the proposed legislation on passenger name records. in an increasingly digitalised world, almost all the personal details of people’s lives are held on a database somewhere, and the protection of that information becomes increasingly important. the protection of that information throws up some obvious issues: the security of the information held, who has legitimate access to it and how to protect it from highly sophisticated criminals. these are not easy issues to resolve. we all live in democratic societies – more or less, anyway – but the state has never had such a wealth of information potentially available to it and the possibility of potential misuse by it. we may feel safe now under our present governments, but we do not know what the future will hold. imagine what stalin, hitler and mao tse-tung could have done with the goldmine of information that exists now. as the european union becomes more centralised and undemocratic, we cannot know what the shape of its government will take in the future. therefore, the protection of individual citizens’ most private information must remain the responsibility of democratic nation states answerable to their people.
madam president, today this institution has an opportunity to give with one hand and take with the other. while the mind boggles at the invasive and unnecessary pnr proposal, we in sinn féin welcome the introduction of a more robust data protection initiative, such as the good report authored by mr albrecht. the right to the protection of personal data is enshrined in the european convention of human rights and the european charter of fundamental rights, and they seek to protect the individual’s right to privacy, for instance protecting private medical records and preventing insurance companies from potentially misusing personally and very deeply- held private information. the data protection regulation, while not perfect, is a step in the right direction, and the european institutions should build on this platform and concern themselves more with the protection of the civil liberties of citizens rather than on what meals they order on a flight.
rapporteur.– madam president, today’s debate and tomorrow’s vote are something which at times i doubted would actually happen in my lifetime. i hope that tomorrow’s result is a positive one. we have created a directive which i know is going to save lives, protect rights, catch criminals and make europe a safer place for our citizens. throughout this process there has been more than enough finger-pointing, enough games and enough politics, but today i hope to add some facts and the arguments for why i feel we need this instrument – a view shared by governments of all political persuasions and by all law-enforcement authorities across the whole eu. there may be people here in this debate today who still want to vote against this report, but i believe this is the best deal we could have reached. too often politicians come away from negotiations in possession of a piece of legislation which feels like the lowest common denominator, something they can live with, something which could have been worse. i do not feel that way at all. i can say with my hand on my heart that i am proud of what we will vote on tomorrow. i know that we pushed for sound data-protection provisions which mirrored those of the data protection directive and which provided specific rules for pnr data exchange. i know we allowed for the ecj judgment on retention to have resonance and to be a meaningful basis for any review. i know that we have retention periods which are proportionate and that we are collecting pnr data to combat a list of crimes which we must prevent and prosecute. never have the challenges europe faces been so prevalent, and inevitably the fight against terrorism has become the focus of this directive for many, given its value in combating eu foreign fighters. but i have been urging this parliament to support pnr for nearly five years, not just because of terrorism but because it tackles the worst and darkest kinds of criminality as well – human trafficking, child trafficking, drug trafficking, paedophiles, murderers and rapists. pnr does not just help bring perpetrators to justice, it can also save people from the horrors that criminality brings. there are many examples from the uk where pnr has helped rescue children and women from a life of exploitation and suffering. pnr is not a hypothetical instrument and the uk has had a system in place for a decade. it works, it saves lives, it puts criminals where they belong: behind bars. to the critics who say we are sacrificing civil liberties in the name of security, let me emphasise that without this pnr directive there would be no european standards whatsoever specific to pnr, no specific rights of redress, no rules on data retention periods, no rules on who can access the information, no rules on pseudonymising data, no rules on keeping logs, no rules on reviews or compliance with the principles of proportionality and necessity and ecj rulings. for those who ask why we need a european solution, on this i have listened to the experts, to europol director rob wainwright, to anti-terrorism coordinator gilles de kerchove, and to law-enforcement experts from around europe. by having a single set of rules at a european level we close the legal loopholes criminals seek to exploit under different legal jurisdictions. by collecting and sharing the same information across the eu we make data comparable and relevant. we cut down the lengthy delays of exchanging information through bilateral agreements, allowing for an expediency which is so vital today in criminal investigations. and to those who say we need mandatory sharing of all information for a centralised eu database, i would say that mandatory exchange of personal data without regard to necessity and proportionality would be contrary to the fundamental principles of data protection. but sharing relevant information with law enforcement agencies in other member states and with europol should take place whenever necessary. irrelevant or unnecessary processing of data would undermine individuals’ rights and will make it more difficult for authorities to prioritise the most relevant and serious cases. but throughout this process i have always welcomed positive contributions from my colleagues. i look forward to today’s debate because i believe that the sooner the better as far as pnr across europe is concerned.
mr president, as a british conservative i believe that the eu should only legislate where there is clear added value for our citizens and where achieving our goals cannot be done alone. combating cross-border crime and terrorism is one such area. we have a duty to provide our citizens with safety and security. criminals and terrorists do not respect national borders and legal jurisdictions – they will exploit any gaps and weaknesses. we need a fighting chance against them. so do we not need everything we possibly can to help us trace their movements? therefore my conservative colleague mr kirkhope has my full support, and i want to thank him for all the work he has done. it is time for this parliament to fulfil its responsibilities and adopt this important crime-fighting measure. it is simple: i will be voting to protect my constituents’ rights, privacy and their lives.
rapporteur.– madam president, i think this has been a very important debate and i am very grateful to all of those who contributed. indeed, throughout the whole process of this directive and the work on it, i have always been – and i think everyone would agree – not always in agreement with everybody, but certainly very willing to listen to the various suggestions that have been made, even for those who are quite sceptical of the proposals, and i thank them for their contribution today. i do just want to say that i hope that we will be able to get support tomorrow. i would urge people not to support the amendments that have been put down by groups, because we are dealing with a package of measures here which i hope we can put through as they now are on the table. i think it is an important matter because my country, of course, is in the middle of a nationwide debate on why we should be members of the european union. i make no apology to say that some of my constituents want more evidence of where there is added value. frankly, this is timely. it may have taken five years, but our security and our cooperation in the fight against criminality is something that i strongly believe does add value to our membership. as has been said, it is not just a question of dealing with terrorists or threats of terrorism, important though that is; it is also dealing with all the other major criminal areas: people trafficking, child trafficking, trafficking in drugs, and all the other things that are so important that we should be working together to tackle them. so i am asking everybody to vote for this tomorrow, of course, but i think it will also give a message to our citizens that we really do care about them. we care about their security, we care about their privacy and, by doing it in a balanced way, i think we will restore some of the trust, which sometimes our institutions seem to have lost. we are doing the right thing and i hope we are making the right decision.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, the question over turkey highlights precisely how far the european union will go in the name of its neo-colonialist ambitions. for all the posturing over your defence of democracy, human rights and the freedom of press around the world, you have hugely contradicted yourselves with the renewed prospects of turkey’s eu membership at the very moment that concerns regarding the backsliding of these issues have reached their height. to top it all you have used taxpayers’ money to effectively bribe turkey into accepting your disastrous asylum policy. that the eu is willing to consider even opening up negotiations on the future accession of turkey underlines how you are carrying on with business as usual, whilst doing an excellent impression of an ostrich with its head in the sand. last week the dutch effectively rejected eu expansion in their own referendum and, as british public support for brexit increases, polls in denmark show that, if the uk leaves, a majority of danish people will want likewise. all this at the very time of the ongoing crisis over the eurozone, the schengen area and migration. further enlargement of the eu is a threat to my country, so accordingly the only way to ensure british security is to vote to leave on 23 june.
madam president, this report deliberately does not endorse the eu/turkey refugee deal. for the eu to be party to arrangements described by the un refugee agency as illegal may be contested, but it is deeply worrying. it is right for europe to seek to cooperate with turkey and all countries neighbouring syria in this humanitarian cause of refugees, but clearly only if it encompasses full respect for international humanitarian law. europe can never be silenced in criticisms on democracy and human rights in return for cooperation on migration. i saw the siege of sur in southeast turkey for myself a month ago. fight terrorism with our support, but not your own people. lift the curfews. allow innocent civilians to be evacuated and bodies to be buried. most of all, return to a kurdish peace process. do not prosecute journalists because they publish stories you do not like or protest against the british consul attending their court hearing, because surely you should have nothing to hide. do not accuse free academics of being terrorists and then have your ministry of justice say those accused of terrorism can have their nationality removed. it is a direct defiance of article 15 of the universal declaration of human rights. to those on the other side who still oppose the opening of eu negotiating chapters with turkey on justice and human rights, understand how short-sighted are your arguments and that if turkey should avoid hypocrisy, so should we.
madam president, i cannot imagine anyone who has been in negotiations where they have asked someone for help who was then surprised when the other party asked for something back. this appears to be what is happening with turkey, and it seems to have taken many colleagues by surprise. ideally, i would also prefer to isolate issues from one another. however, we must also be realistic. turkey plays a crucial role geopolitically in the region and we need its help to tackle systematic issues which are of enormous concern to everyone, from the immigration package to accession talks in general. this makes some overlap almost inevitable, but it is not necessarily something we should be afraid of. whilst we must be careful not to give turkey a free pass, enhanced cooperation in critical areas, from the fight against terrorism to the migrant crisis, should be seen as an opportunity to breathe life into our relationship instead of being seen as a step backwards.
madam president, turkish accession to the eu is important in its own right but is especially so now in the light of the uk referendum. immigration alone makes this a contentious issue as turkey, which has been trying to join the eu for many years, is allowing erdoğan to blackmail the eu into accelerating the process. turkey is not even part of europe. ninety-seven per cent of it is in asia, and although like us it has a history that shares the glories of greece, rome and the italian renaissance, it is not part of european culture. under atatürk turkey became a secular nation, but more recently it has been moving towards islamism as it was practised in the 6th century. does the eu really want turkey as a member? what will accession mean? we do not even know for certain what the true population is – figures range from 75 to 79 million. turkey is also home to millions of refugees who could, in the future, be given a turkish passport. when turkey becomes a member of the eu all these people will have the right to come to britain. labour, lib dems, greens and conservatives all support turkey’s entry and, incidentally, the tories are members of the alliance of european conservatives and reformists, a pan-european party in which one of the members is erdoğan’s own justice and development party. turkish membership alone is a big reason for the british to vote to leave on 23 june.
blue-card question.– madam president, the other issue that nobody speaks about in this chamber, with the possibility of eventual turkish eu membership, is the shift in the dynamics of the politics of this chamber. were turkey to join the european union, with a population of, say, 77 million – if we take the estimates and start in the middle – they would have the largest number of meps. the existing member states would have even less representation. is that not another reason why turkey should be kept out of the european union? because the main players – and indeed the smaller players – within the european union would have even less democratic ability to represent their citizens.
madam president, this frankenstein – i mean fleckenstein – report on albania looks at their progress towards achieving the criteria that will eventually allow them to join the eu. and whilst ongoing reform in albania is obviously welcome, i am concerned about what you said about that country, commissioner. that really was a tale of woe, and they have obviously got a very long way to go before they can become eu members. but of course, once they are eu members, it will draw albania into the schengen area – already notorious for facilitating organised crime and human trafficking. the uk has a gdp per capita approximately 10 times that of albania and a minimum wage level and social benefit structure that will draw albanians to britain like an electromagnet. if i was an honest young man in albania today, i would take english lessons and save up for a train ticket to london and pray that the brits vote to remain in the club on 23 june 2016. if i was a criminal in albania today, i would view eu membership as a passport to paradise. whilst the eu sits in judgement on albania, it presides over appalling problems within its own jurisdiction. getting its own financial accounts satisfactorily signed off would be a good start and a good example to albania. the lesson just never seems to be learned that making the eu bigger does not make the eu better.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, over the past year, bosnia and herzegovina has taken steady steps on its european path. twenty years after the end of the bosnian war the country presented its eu membership application. it was a welcome step forward, and we call on the council to examine this application at the earliest opportunity and to forward it without delay to the commission in order to start the preparation of the avis. how bosnia progresses should be of importance to the eu as we seek to bring stability and prosperity to our neighbourhood. euro-atlantic integration remains the best hope for a stable and prosperous bosnia. it will be a long journey for the country but it is an important one. many outstanding issues remain, however. addressing the socioeconomic problems is an immediate priority. we must keep the government accountable for public administration reform and support initiatives improving economic growth and social justice in bosnia. that is what ordinary bosnians want and need. i am particularly concerned about the nationalistic rhetoric that still dominates bosnian politics. we must be firm against those who attempt to promote secession and undermine judicial and state institutions. also worrying is the most recent case law and practice of the bosnian state court and state prosecutor’s office. as part of the structural dialogue on justice, we must work hard to further professionalise and depoliticise these institutions. if we do not ensure respect for the rule of law, backed by a credible judiciary, all our other efforts will fail. constitutional change will also eventually be needed for the country to transform it into a fully functional, democratic and inclusive state. it is also essential to promote education in order to break down the ethnic barriers, while guaranteeing the right to educate children in their own language. the s&d group remains committed to a peaceful and progressive future for bosnia and herzegovina where all its citizens are guaranteed fundamental freedoms.
madam president, as a member of the delegation for relations with bosnia and herzegovina i have made a commitment to developing a deep relationship with civil society grassroots organizations and, in particular, young people, who are, after all, the future. i have made several visits to the country in order to get to know and build long-lasting trusting relationships with young people, who i believe hold the future of this country in their hands: they must not be let down. i would like to use this opportunity to praise in particular the work of young people from srebrenica, bratunac and višegrad and other towns and communities in that area who participated in a pan-european project funded by the eu called ‘the complete freedom of truth’. during a three-week project last summer i worked with those young people to help them develop definitions of democracy. together they really committed to developing new forms of participation amongst each other, and i would just like to read the definition. it is very quick. ‘democracy is freedom in a framework, powered by people working together for each other with equality, kindness, respect and responsibility.’ well done, the youth of srebrenica. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, i have to say that, at the moment, i am very disappointed in what i am hearing tonight. the eu appears to consider that within the cloak of the single market – if i understood correctly – it can unilaterally tackle a global challenge. the two key areas of threat, as i understand it, in terms of protecting business know—how, trade secrets and business information, are actually internal theft and internal release and access of information, coupled – or, secondly – in the area of cybercrime. none of what i have heard so far this evening is even beginning to look at that. we seem to be completely and utterly focused on whistle—blowers. i do not see that the european union has the competency to address this. it certainly does not have the resources, and it is a challenge that faces the global business world in every business sector. to suddenly start picking out things like the panama papers, or even the global pharmaceutical world, i really do not think is the right approach and one that we ought to be taking. so for once – and it is not often that i am in agreement with a fellow colleague this evening – i do believe we ought to delay this directive. i think it ought to go back and be considered in light of a much broader picture, which is that security of knowledge and stopping global criminals, global cybercrime and rogue states, who at the moment will look at what we are potentially going to pass and think gleefully, ‘great, they have just opened up yet more opportunity for us’.
author.– madam president, europe’s smes, including in my own constituency of wales, have shown remarkable resilience in times of recent financial troubles, but now need capital to fuel their expansion and growth. in much of the regulation that was negotiated during the aftermath of the financial crisis, there was emphasis placed on higher capital requirements for credit institutions across the board. however, we sought in this house, where possible, to minimise the impact that this would have on lending to the real economy. part of these measures included the sme supporting factor, which was intended to provide an incentive to banks to lend to smes as they would receive a slightly lower capital charge for this type of lending. however, the european banking authority (eba) report on how this has been implemented suggests it is having little impact. i quote: ‘sme bank lending has suffered a significant backdrop in volumes from a peak of eur 95 billion in 2008 to approximately eur 54 billion in 2013-14. bank lending to larger corporates, on the other hand, has already recovered to its pre-crisis volumes. the eba analysis questions the effectiveness of the entire sme supporting factor. however, i do not think it is fair to look at this factor in isolation, as other factors affecting lending, such as reduced demand and confidence among the smes themselves, have also got to be taken into account. both anecdotal evidence in my own constituency and data analysed by the bank of england suggests that nearly 77% of smes in the last year that have applied for bank loans have received them; so i am concerned that the eba only looks at the level of capital supplied, as opposed to the level of capital requested, and therefore its conclusions should be treated with a healthy level of scepticism. can the commission therefore explain how the directorate-general for financial stability, financial services and capital markets union (dg fisma) is working with the directorate-general for internal market, industry, entrepreneurship and smes (dg grow) to look at the wider confidence issues in the sme sector, and bear these measures in mind when reviewing the very important sme supporting factor.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, this oral question states that one of the main obstacles to sme growth is their access to finance. whilst this may be true to some extent, this question does not address the fundamental issues that smes face in eu regulations that are excessive. statistics have recently revealed some quite extraordinary facts about the amount of rules that businesses within the eu have to comply with. for example, it has been estimated that if you stacked together all of the eu rules and regulations, it would be higher than nelson’s column – that is over 52m of rules that affect british businesses, british employers and british employees. they have to comply with these rules. it really is no wonder that british businesses feel inundated by the tides of eu regulations that companies – both large and small – have to comply with. no wonder they want to leave the eu. only by voting to leave the european union on 23 june 2016 can businesses and the economy really begin to thrive, free from excessive and burdensome eu regulations.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality.– mr president, i would also like to thank my colleagues for our work together on this report, which cuts across many issues and needs a holistic approach. it is quite clear that we need fresh political ambition to eradicate poverty across europe, and we must be absolutely clear that there is no way of alleviating poverty unless we also tackle gender inequality. the financial crisis and subsequent austerity measures have had a disproportionate adverse effect on women – far more than men – causing a feminisation of poverty. this report sets out how the european union must work to address the concerns of vulnerable women, especially single mothers and caregivers and women suffering from multiple discriminations, who are so often left behind because of government policy. the report is another step in the eu’s history of advancing women’s rights and gender equality and is particularly important in the light of austerity. we need a european definition of energy poverty and we need it to include a gender perspective, reflective of the fact that female-headed households are more likely to be energy poor. these are some of the many concrete targeted policies that we propose, which also include investing in research into the causes of female homelessness. to conclude, the commission and national governments must include a strong gender pillar in all of their social policy, demonstrating that the eu acts for its constituents and for social justice.
rapporteur.– mr president, my report on the private sector in development breaks new ground. it provides a solution to the huge financial shortfalls in funding created by the development agenda for the next 15 years. the success of the millennium development goals in the past 15 years has provided ample evidence of how to get it right in the next 15 years, but one billion people still live on less than usd 1.25 per day and more than 800 million people do not have enough food to eat. poverty is not eliminated by hand-outs. it is only wealth creation that ends poverty. we have 15 years to fix that with the new 17 sustainable development goals announced at the united nations last year. but how can we fund this? lofty ambitions to end poverty in all its forms everywhere come with a huge price tag. climate change mitigation alone will cost usd 250 billion. the united nations conference on trade and development projects a funding gap – yes, i repeat, a funding gap – of usd 2.5 trillion for the sustainable development goals. this is a staggering sum, a sum that is beyond comprehension to our european taxpayers, a sum that the already struggling european taxpayer cannot even begin to shoulder. my report highlights that such a funding shortfall can be adequately met only if the private sector is involved in development, not through more taxes, but through partnership. but first we have to end the tax fraud in developing countries, which accounts for losses of nearly 1 trillion annually through illicit funding. money that should stay in those countries is brought to europe and other offshore accounts and hidden away by the elite of those countries. we have to make sure that those funds stay in those countries to be used for the development of those countries. secondly, we have to demand that the oecd members match their 1970 pledge of 0.7% of gni. thirdly, the sustainable development goals will require the drive, the managerial skill and the commitment of our private sector partners, for it is the private sector which creates 90% of jobs and income for poor people in developing countries, alongside donors, civil society and trade partners. fourthly, public-private partnerships must mobilise long-term – not short-term – private finance and hold the private sector accountable to public sector tendering processes, transparency and scrutiny. so this report calls for the private sector to invest in building and running schools; digging for wells and irrigating agriculture; building, running and maintaining hospitals and hospital services; building, owning, and operating roads, airports, and harbours; and setting up meat-, fruit- and vegetable-processing factories, all of which will create jobs and wealth in the developing countries, done in partnership with the public sector and pump-primed by eu development assistance. if we mean to offer the billion people still living in abject poverty the dignity of work and of earning a living wage, then we must seize this opportunity before us now and get on with it. i therefore commend this report to parliament and, in doing so, i want to thank my colleagues in the development committee from all the political groups who have assisted and supported me in this, and i particularly thank ms ingrid russell, my research assistant, for doing all the hard work.
member of the commission.– mr president, it is with pleasure that i welcome the report on the private sector and development. it is a significant contribution to a full and coherent expression of the european union’s institutions on the importance of the private sector’s role in development. the report reflects the priorities and challenges identified in the 2014 commission communication, ‘a stronger role of the private sector in achieving inclusive and sustainable growth in developing countries’, and in the council conclusions of june and december 2014. the main challenge in our cooperation with developing countries remains achieving inclusive and sustainable growth and creating decent jobs. for example, as it is expected that africa’s population will double by 2050, we need to help it create at least 400 million new jobs. this requires sustainable investment to diversify our partners’ economies and link them to global value chains. official development assistance is essential but not enough. domestic resource mobilisation is key, and we must also catalyse private funding flows. the european union blending framework is a successful tool for achieving european union external policy objectives by leveraging public and private funds. discussions in the eu platform for blending, involving the european parliament, include exchanges on the issue of private sector engagement in blending. in this context, mr president, i expect that, from the programmed resources for the 2014-2020 period, eur 4.8 billion of eu grants could leverage at least eur 66 billion in investments from financial institutions and private investors in partner countries in sub-saharan africa, asia and latin america. the commission remains committed to ensuring and enhancing the local ownership of blended projects by involving partner countries and regional organisations. this strategy would be implemented also through innovative instruments such as ‘electrify’ or ‘agrify’ initiatives, which have been developed to promote private sector investments in rural electrification and agriculture. structured dialogue and multi-stakeholder approaches with the private sector and civil society organisations are key elements in our strategy. we need partnerships that encourage businesses to put sustainability at the core of their strategies and to promote innovative, inclusive business models. the commission will invest over eur 2 billion to support global private sector development and facilitate responsible and inclusive partner sector investment in development by 2020. the commission will implement this strategy through national and regional indicative programmes and through thematic programmes. european economic diplomacy can help mobilise european investments, with mutual benefits for the sending and receiving countries in terms of growth and jobs. the necessary support would be needed to allow these investments also to take place in economically riskier and emerging parts of the world. the intervention of the private sector is also crucial for the transformational objectives of the social development goals and the climate change commitments. in this regard, coordination with the eu member states and respect for the principle of subsidiarity are important elements of the commission’s approach, fully in line with the sdgs and the addis ababa action agenda. the private sector is sending signals that it is ready to work with us to become a true financing and implementing partner in achieving sustainable growth in developing countries. i urge you to help seize this opportunity.
author.– mr president, i am speaking today in my capacity as chair of the delegation for countries of south asia, and i want to add my condolences and those of the delegation to the families and loved ones of those killed in the recent atrocity in lahore, designed to attack children and families on the easter public holiday, and also condolences for other recent attacks. we have been seeing an overall decrease in such attacks by violent extremists and have seen a more consistent and coordinated effort from the government and the army, and it is essential that they work together. we welcome the government’s commitment to reform the education system and curriculum to engender a wider understanding of human rights and respect for diversity. we welcome, too, the further commitments in terms of equality before the law and the promotion of human rights, which of course will need a strong and fully-independent human rights commission, as well as the implementation of the conventions that the government has signed up to, not least as part of the gsp+ agreement. we also hope that we will see a reconsideration of the death penalty and its eventual abolition.
author.– mr president, for those belonging to religious minority communities in pakistan, life can be very difficult. this is true for the shias, the ahmadis, the hindus and especially christians. the horrifying terrorist attack in lahore on easter day is sadly not an isolated incident and deserves our full condemnation in this house. whilst it would be unfair to say that no action has been taken, i do call today upon the pakistani government to do more to foster an atmosphere of tolerance and respect for all communities. part of the problem is the apparent inability to confront pakistan’s deeply troubling legislation on religion, such as the blasphemy laws and the hudood ordinances – laws that should be repealed as a matter of priority. salman taseer, the assassinated politician who called for the abolition of the blasphemy laws and paid with his life for doing so, is much revered by many in pakistan, but it is clear to me that the country is still infected by undercurrents of extremism. we have debated religious extremism and intolerance in pakistan in this house on many occasions, and i really hope now that there is the will in that country and its government for some change.
madam president, as we feel the shock of the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels, let us recall that the global terrorism index shows that only 0.5% of its victims are in europe and the west, and that over 80% of the people killed by terrorists in the last five years have been muslims. so we mourn the 72 victims in lahore, terrorists who targeted a children’s playground at the height of holiday celebrations to inflict most harm on those who are most innocent. with all countries with whom we cooperate in fighting terrorism, we seek to uphold human rights and the rule of law, and we say the same to our friends in pakistan in our resolution today. we oppose the death penalty and we ask pakistan again to consider whether all executions are genuinely linked to terrorism, especially in the light of research from the justice project and from reprieve that they are not. we call for clemency in the case of abdul basit, but we do so in steadfast opposition to terrorism and in full solidarity with pakistan and all countries who suffer as its victims.
madam president, we strongly condemn the attack in lahore and extend our deepest condolences to the families and friends of the victims. in the last three decades, the country has suffered immensely. over 60 000 people have lost their lives and the loss to the economy is estimated to be over 110 billion. pakistan is leading the fight against terrorism in the region. the eu and the international community need to support and acknowledge pakistan’s overall progress in fighting terror. we have experienced the horrors of terrorism recently again in paris and brussels. terrorism is a global problem. this is not a clash between different cultures or different faiths. this is simply extremists wanting to see other our societies break up, and creating division is what makes them strong. we need to work together to eradicate the root causes and prevent further radicalisation, stop terrorist financing and promote integration. eu and global leaders must now more than ever commit to offering support and assisting each other in defeating terrorism, and we must do so by promoting values of peace, freedom, human rights ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, from peshawar to paris, from brussels to lahore, i have always been completely unambiguous in my condemnation of terrorism. they are inexcusable acts of barbarism that cannot be justified or explained in any way. the european parliament’s response to the latest attacks in pakistan should be no different. we should send a simple message, denouncing these crimes while expressing our solidarity with its people. there should be no strings attached. unfortunately, some are using this opportunity to deliver a lengthy lecture to pakistan on a wide range of domestic issues. imagine if, in the wake of recent attacks in europe, someone told us they felt sorry but our migrant policy and social integration failures were to blame for what had happened. we would not take kindly to it, and rightly so. do not get me wrong: there is a time and place for socio-political debate on pakistan, but now is not the time.
madam president, you are free to go to your temples or your mosques or any other places of worship in pakistan. you may belong to any religion, caste, or creed: that has nothing to do with the state. those are the founding principles of pakistan to which we refer in our resolution. every person killed, maimed or injured in these cowardly attacks in lahore is a pakistani. if we seek to split them into categories in our resolutions, we do a disservice to their memory. states and actors who support terrorist networks should know: slowly you are being exposed, your operatives are, and will be, captured, and eventually you will be exposed completely. when terrorists attack, be it in paris or peshawar, in london or lahore, or indeed in brussels, they attack us all, and we stand shoulder to shoulder as one to face them.
member of the commission.– madam president, the european union was deeply saddened by the heinous killings in honduras of human rights defenders ms berta cáceres, mr nelson garcia and lgbti activist paolo barraza. ms cáceres was a prominent human rights defender, as we all know, and was very well known by the european union for her courageous commitment in defending the environment and the indigenous rights of the lenca community to which she belonged. in an immediate reaction to these odious murders, the european union has called for a thorough, expedite and transparent investigation of the cases. it is of the utmost importance to give strong signals that impunity for these assassinations of human rights defenders will not prevail. the european union continues to monitor with great attention the dire situation of indigenous leaders, members of the lgbti community, journalists and justice officials who continue to be particularly affected by violations of human rights in the country. precautionary measures granted by the inter-american commission on human rights should be immediately implemented to avoid any further killings. the situation also calls for an urgent implementation of the law to protect human rights defenders. the european union has been very much involved in promoting this initiative through its development cooperation programmes, which provided support for the drafting of the law. the overall human rights situation in honduras remains characterised by widespread violence in which corruption and impunity play a considerable part. to address this, rapid progress should be made in the implementation of the recommendations issued in the universal periodic review carried out in 2015, the vast majority of which have been accepted by honduras. the union also looks forward to the full operation of the office of the united nations human rights commissioner. the european union has constantly advocated human rights and justice reforms in honduras and stands ready to work together with the honduran people to address these challenges. the union and its member states are the most important actors in development cooperation, including on human rights issues in the country. the european union welcomes the recent agreement on the deployment of an organisation of american states mission to support the fight against corruption and impunity in honduras, known as maccih in its spanish acronym, and the request for support from the honduran authorities to this mission in the investigation of mrs berta cáceres’s killing. in broader terms, the union has taken proactive steps to protect human rights defenders worldwide. this includes the establishment, at the end of 2015, of a comprehensive human rights defender mechanism managed by a consortium of human rights ngos which has now become fully operational.
author.– madam president, as previous speakers have said: today is a day of reflection. it is the second anniversary of the abductions of the schoolgirls from chibok and we are remembering them today, along with many others who have suffered at the hands of boko haram, and particularly the families of those whose fate is unknown. in responding to this, there is a great need for coordinated action both within the state of nigeria itself and within the region. we know that there is real difficulty involved in deploying adequate state resources. nigeria is a fossil-fuel-dependent economy. in our view it needs transition planning urgently, but prices have dropped; we know that there is gross inequality within the country, and there is an urgent need to tackle corruption in order to increase revenue. furthermore, to improve the quality of governance, we need trusted institutions to tackle tensions, confront violent extremism and increase the general quality of life for nigerians. so we welcome the current government’s efforts, but we also want the eu member states, and indeed our companies operating in nigeria, to cooperate as well.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, for over 20 years the european union has used development assistance as a lever to claim – and i emphasise to claim – to advance the cause of human rights. every thursday of every strasbourg session we devote half a day to talking shop. we do not even walk the walk any more. we just do an awful lot of talking and not much else. the european union and nigeria signed an accord back in 2009 called the eu—nigeria joint way forward. as a result, eur 700 million went to nigeria for 2009—13 and then another eur 512 million for 2014—20. it was emphasised that the money was intended to deliver an improvement on human rights. well, quite frankly, given that two years after all those girls were abducted – and it has taken footage in the press, across europe, to show that some of them are still alive – they have been forgotten and are being ignored, where is the value for that money? where is that eur 512 million being spent? quite frankly, it is another example in which the european union says one thing but does not actually deliver.
madam president, the continuing captivity of over 200 schoolgirls from the town of chibok symbolises the senseless human suffering caused by terrorism in nigeria. we hear frequent reports of some of the girls being forced to take part in suicide bombings, and facing rape, sexual abuse and forced marriage. we in this parliament must ask whether we have done enough. it was good to meet with president buhari when he was here, but we must also share our expertise with the nigerian government to ensure that it has the skills in counter—terrorism to combat this terrible evil. many in the chamber today have talked about poverty and social exclusion, but it is also important in nigeria that we foster a free society, ensure that the fundamental freedoms of religion and conscience are upheld and, quite rightly, we debated this week terrorism in europe. we should not forget the sectarian terrorism of fundamentalist jihadists against those on the african continent.
madam president, although this regulation was approved without a vote, it is an important milestone that we have achieved. it is a regulation that ensures people’s rights are properly protected when their personal data is used. so what the european parliament secured today is a key update in data protection legislation that is vital to make these rules fit for a digital age. the right to be forgotten, parental permission for a child to open a social media account, and the need for consent before processing personal data: these are all incredibly important. it shows that this parliament is acting in the interests of consumers, giving them greater control over their personal data, enabling them to make the right choices and the right decisions for themselves, and for their families as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this regulation as the new rules represent a significant improvement on existing data protection legislation; the right to be forgotten, parental permission for a child to open a social media account, and the need for consent before processing personal data are all incredibly important.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this regulation as the new rules represent a significant improvement on existing data protection legislation. the data protection regulation will ensure business, consumers and ngos will have greater clarity thanks to the new rules which include the requirement that clear consent be provided for the processing of personal data. the legislation will also require parental consent to be given in order for a child to be able to open a social media account, and makes it clear that consumers now have a right to be forgotten. the regulation gives eu citizens new positive rights including the ability to know when your data has been hacked, the use of plain language in requests for personal data, the appointment of data protection officers in firms handling large amounts of data, and fines of up to four per cent of annual turnover for companies that do not respect the rules.
madam president, the many threats to our security mean that it is vital that we continue to look into new ways to prevent crime, and we should grasp the opportunities offered to us by the digital age. but people are also concerned about government access to their data and misuse of that access and the impact on their privacy. this directive strikes the right balance between clear guidelines for law enforcement agencies on the one hand and the importance of protecting people’s privacy on the other. for progressives in the european parliament, it was key to make sure that this directive goes hand in hand with the one on pnr, which allows us to share flight data, the aim being to ensure that we have more tools to track terrorists without forcing the rest of us to give up our fundamental rights and privacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this directive as it will provide new safeguards for all eu citizens. it will ensure protections are in place for the processing of data for law enforcement purposes, providing clear and consistent guidelines for authorities while ensuring fundamental rights and privacy are upheld. this is also important in the context of pnr (passenger name records).
in writing. ‒ i voted for this directive because it will provide new safeguards for all eu citizens which ensure protections are in place for the processing of data for law enforcement purposes, providing clear and consistent guidelines for authorities while ensuring fundamental rights and privacy are upheld.
madam president, security is one of the key arguments for the united kingdom to remain in the eu. following the attacks in brussels, it is even more evident that we need measures, and we need to work together to ensure that information-sharing between european countries operates properly. we need to give intelligence agencies the tools to track terrorists. by voting in favour of the pnr directive, labour meps proved wrong those on the right and the eurosceptics, who had been misleading the public with a smear campaign claiming we had been blocking progress on this. today we voted for a directive that allows us to gather and share flight data of potential perpetrators of terrorist attacks between all the eu countries, while making sure people’s privacy is protected through a strong directive protecting personal data. today the eu made us stronger in the fight against terrorism, while ensuring that people’s privacy is protected.
in writing. ‒ after much consideration, i decided to oppose the pnr proposals for two main reasons: 1. i don’t believe that it will have the security benefits which have been claimed for it. indeed, the free movement within the schengen area must be of far greater concern. the recent terror attacks would not have been stopped by pnr. 2. i have concerns over privacy and data retention. the lengthy ‘masking period’ ensures that personal data will be kept, and the legislation provides for that data to be shared with third countries. this leads to a loss of control over personal data and the risk of cyber-attacks and/or fraud. finally, it grants power to the european police force, europol.
in writing. ‒ whilst ukip are not principally opposed to the use of pnr data on a bilateral basis, ukip have voted against this legislative report. our main concerns lie with two key areas of this legislation. the first issue is that this legislation will permit europol, an eu agency that ukip neither recognise nor respect, to access this data and thus provides an extension of their judicial powers. the second issue for ukip lies with the length of time that the data will be held; we believe that this length of data retention is far too long and leaves many law-abiding citizens’ data at risk from cyber-attacks. we believe that this risk is significantly higher in certain member states that do not have appropriate standards for data protection and security. in this respect, ukip have therefore voted for amendments which significantly reduce the length of period for data retention.
in writing. – whilst ukip are not principally opposed to the use of pnr data on a bilateral basis, ukip have voted against this legislative report. our main concerns lie with two key areas of this legislation. the first issue is that this legislation will permit europol, an eu agency that ukip neither recognise nor respect, to access this data and thus provides an extension of their judicial powers. the second issue for ukip lies with the length of time that the data will be held; we believe that this length of data retention is far too long and leaves many law-abiding citizens’ data at risk from cyber-attacks. we believe that this risk is significantly higher in certain member states that do not have appropriate standards for data protection and security. in this respect, ukip have therefore voted for amendments which significantly reduce the length of period for data retention.
in writing. ‒ my conservative colleagues and i voted in favour of this directive as it closes loopholes that were previously open to exploitation by criminals in order to avoid detection by law enforcement authorities. there exists clear evidence that the eu pnr, which shares less information than a tesco clubcard, helps in the fight against crime, including terror suspects, murderers and human traffickers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this directive, it will ensure the processing and sharing of airline passenger name records between eu member states in order to help identify passengers who are suspected terrorists on flights which originate from outside of the eu. there are also a number of safeguards to ensure that this complies with data protection rules and is proportional.
in writing. ‒ voting to make my constituents safer from terrorist and criminal threats is something which must be the highest duty of any politician for his or her constituents. the eu passenger name record (pnr) directive will ensure the processing and sharing of airline passenger name records between eu member states. this will help identify passengers who are suspected terrorists on flights which originate from outside of the eu, before any damage can be done. earlier attempts to win agreement foundered on proper questions about respect for civil liberties and privacy of data, but which i believe have now been properly answered by building necessary judicial safeguards into the agreement. i strongly believe national governments must also get serious about funding europe-wide anti-terrorism bodies, and make better use of european instruments for sharing vehicle registration details, finger printing and dna data. our access as a member of the eu to these measures, now including pnr, highlights the necessity of britain remaining within the eu. i am proud to have given this report my support.
in writing. – whilst ukip are not principally opposed to the use of pnr data on a bilateral basis, ukip have voted against this legislative report. our main concerns lie with two key areas of this legislation. the first issue is that this legislation will permit europol, an eu agency that ukip neither recognise nor respect, to access this data and thus provides an extension of their judicial powers. the second issue for ukip lies with the length of time that the data will be held; we believe that this length of data retention is far too long and leaves many law-abiding citizens’ data at risk from cyber-attacks. we believe that this risk is significantly higher in certain member states that do not have appropriate standards for data protection and security. in this respect, ukip have therefore voted for amendments which significantly reduce the length of period for data retention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive, as it will provide a useful tool to assist police and intelligence agencies in tracking down possible terrorists and criminals. the directive also contains a number of safeguards to ensure it complies with data protection rules and is proportional. if the data is used and shared effectively by law enforcement agencies it will assist in the fight against terror, but should not be presented as a silver bullet. what the last few years have shown is that while measures have been adopted at eu level, national governments must make better use of european instruments to combat terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this directive as it will provide a useful tool to assist police and intelligence agencies in tracking down possible terrorists and criminals. if the data is used and shared effectively by law enforcement agencies it will assist in the fight against terror, but should not be presented as a silver bullet. the directive also contains a number of safeguards to ensure it complies with data protection rules and is proportional.
in writing. ‒ whilst ukip are not principally opposed to the use of pnr data on a bilateral basis, ukip have voted against this legislative report. our main concerns lie with two key areas of this legislation. the first issue is that this legislation will permit europol, an eu agency that ukip neither recognise nor respect, to access this data and thus provides an extension of their judicial powers. the second issue for ukip lies with the length of time that the data will be held; we believe that this length of data retention is far too long and leaves many law-abiding citizens’ data at risk from cyber-attacks. we believe that this risk is significantly higher in certain member states that do not have appropriate standards for data protection and security. in this respect, ukip have therefore voted for amendments which significantly reduce the length of period for data retention.
in writing. ‒ whilst ukip are not principally opposed to the use of pnr data on a bilateral basis, ukip have voted against this legislative report. our main concerns lie with two key areas of this legislation. the first issue is that this legislation will permit europol, an eu agency that ukip neither recognise nor respect, to access this data and thus provides an extension of their judicial powers. the second issue for ukip lies with the length of time that the data will be held; we believe that this length of data retention is far too long and leaves many law-abiding citizens’ data at risk from cyber-attacks. we believe that this risk is significantly higher in certain member states that do not have appropriate standards for data protection and security. in this respect, ukip have therefore voted for amendments which significantly reduce the length of period for data retention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which puts in place important rules on the use of passenger data and will help authorities to fight terrorism, human trafficking and catch serious criminals by collecting airline travel data.
in writing. ‒ i received many letters from my constituents on the issue of pnr. this directive hits at one of the key debates in recent years: the balance between the right to a private life and the right to ‘life, liberty and security of person.’ both of these rights are very important, and i was mindful when considering my vote that we must be careful to ensure that we do not compromise the very society that we are fighting for when we look to improve our security. in the end however i felt that this measure was broadly sensible and proportionate to the threat that we face. that threat has been demonstrated both in the paris attacks and the attacks in brussels recently. we would be failing in our duty if, after that, we do not move to ensure the safety of the people of europe.
in writing. – sinn fein voted against this controversial bill. in essence the provisions contained within this report effectively criminalise whistle-blowers. whistle-blowers and journalists could be criminalised if they publish information that companies deem to be secret. as has been noted by a number of ngos, the trade secrets protection act would have potentially criminalised the release of the panama papers: this legislation will make it possible for corporations to define any information they do not want released as a trade secret, and then prosecute journalists or whistle-blowers who release it to the public. this chilling censorship of freedom of expression is one that must be fought at all times. freedom of expression is one of the essential foundations of any democratic state. my party knows first-hand the dangers of this fundamental freedom being curtailed. legislation was introduced in order to censor sinn féin. such draconian measures seek only to undermine democracy. freedom of expression is the basic right to communicate and should be respected by all those who value democracy. this regressive bill was approved by parliament and so it will now need to be passed into law by national parliaments across the 28 nations of the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report and legislative resolution concern a directive for the protection of trade secrets. however, as a ‘one—size—fits—all’ measure, it does not necessarily fit well with the business and employment practices of member states to ensure protection of innovation. there has to be a concern that this legislation will favour big business, which has an ability to litigate which its sme colleagues often lack. it also inhibits the ability of highly-qualified workers to be mobile in the labour market; we risk, therefore, workers leaving the european union to work in other jurisdictions. i therefore decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this legislative report because it defends worker mobility and ensures that big corporations cannot hide evidence of wrongdoing or pressure employees into not revealing fraud to the media.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted for the report on the protection of trade secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. when it comes into force, this directive will provide important protections and help boost innovation for british smes. contrary to some claims, whistle—blowers and journalists are explicitly exempt from the scope of this law. labour meps and our socialists and democrats group colleagues have also managed to exclude media freedom and freedom of expression in a very clear way from the application of the directive, and have secured strong guarantees on workers’ mobility, workers’ right to information and representation, as well as safeguards for disclosure to public authorities. in addition, labour meps are calling for the commission to bring forward a legislative proposal to further protect whistle—blowers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report to defend worker mobility and ensure that big corporations cannot hide evidence of wrongdoing or pressure employees into not revealing fraud, etc., to the media. a specific exception was included throughout the text allowing that the uncovering of wrongdoing is not considered to be an infringement of intellectual property, but is instead important in terms of freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
in writing. ‒ labour is working tirelessly at every level of government to defend worker mobility and ensure that big corporations cannot hide evidence of wrongdoing or pressure employees into not revealing illegal activities like fraud. i have joined my labour colleagues by voting in favour of this legislative report because of my own personal commitment, which is in line with the work of the labour party.
in writing. ‒ any budgetary increase at all is unacceptable in the current economic climate. i supported various amendments aimed at limiting increases, or at cutting costs. it is disappointing that the amendment to cut meps’ salaries and expenses was deemed inadmissible. i voted against the final report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this resolution as paragraph 7 reaffirmed that the budget for the eu parliament (which british taxpayers pay for) would increase overall. ukip supported amendments which called for cuts to eu budgets, staffing and the abolition of the mep chauffeur service. whilst public services are being cut in the uk it outrageous for meps and eu bureaucrats to receive more money from british taxpayers.
in writing. – ukip voted against this resolution as paragraph 7 reaffirmed that the budget for the eu parliament (which british taxpayers pay for) would increase overall. ukip supported amendments which called for cuts to eu budgets, staffing and the abolition of the mep chauffeur service. whilst public services are being cut in the uk it outrageous for meps and eu bureaucrats to receive more money from british taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i fundamentally disagree that the budget of the parliament should be increased by 3.9%, particularly in this climate of austerity. some aspects of this report were positive, such as the necessity for security and cybersecurity to be proportionate to the risks and the call for meps to be more transparent with their use of the general expenditures allowance (something that labour meps already report on).
in writing. – ukip voted against this resolution as paragraph 7 reaffirmed that the budget for the eu parliament (which british taxpayers pay for) would increase overall. ukip supported amendments which called for cuts to eu budgets, staffing and the abolition of the mep chauffeur service. whilst public services are being cut in the uk it outrageous for meps and eu bureaucrats to receive more money from british taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this resolution as paragraph 7 reaffirmed that the budget for the eu parliament (which british taxpayers pay for) would increase overall. ukip supported amendments which called for cuts to eu budgets, staffing and the abolition of the mep chauffeur service. whilst public services are being cut in the uk it outrageous for meps and eu bureaucrats to receive more money from british taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this resolution as paragraph 7 reaffirmed that the budget for the eu parliament (which british taxpayers pay for) would increase overall. ukip supported amendments which called for cuts to eu budgets, staffing and the abolition of the mep chauffeur service. whilst public services are being cut in the uk it outrageous for meps and eu bureaucrats to receive more money from british taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ at a time when austerity is often a key part of national conversations it seemed to me unfair that there should be an increase in the european parliament budget of 3.9% that was proposed by the secretary—general of parliament. there were specific aspects of the report that were positive such as the necessity for security and cybersecurity to be proportionate to the risks. given the recent attacks in brussels it is clear that there is a real and present threat to the parliament. i also noted tarand’s call for increased accountability in the general expenses allowance, which notes the increasing number of meps including us in the labour party who are publishing their spending records. as public representatives, we have a clear responsibility to use the public’s money correctly and transparently in our work. while i also welcome tarand’s call for budgetary restraint and the consideration of below 1.7% increases as it is not an overall cut, i felt that i could not in all good conscience back this report at a time when my colleagues in the welsh assembly and local councillors in my area are grappling with massive cuts that have been imposed upon them.
in writing. – this report deals with the process of turkey’s accession to the eu. it highlights many of the problems turkey faces, including human rights abuses, democratic rights and the ongoing mistreatment of refugees. we supported a number of amendments, including those calling for better treatment of refugees, and the removal of the pkk from the terror list, as a necessary step towards peace between turkey and the kurds. however, the report welcomes the inclusion of turkey on the list of so-called ‘safe countries of origin’ for refugees. despite the many problems turkey faces, and without a resolution of the matter of cyprus, the report is still supportive of further steps towards turkey’s accession to the eu. we therefore abstained on the report.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe in further eu expansion, and therefore had no option but to vote against this progress report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion as it correctly identifies that a lot of progress remains to be made with turkey on important matters such as rule of law, freedom of press and fundamental values. turkey is a vitally important partner for the eu and this relationship must continue to develop in a positive manner than is in line with eu fundamental values.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ turkey remains a key strategic partner for the eu, and i supported this motion because it rightly identifies that there is a lot of progress that is needed on important matters such as rule of law, freedom of press and fundamental values. and i agree with report when it says that the eu-turkey cooperation on migration should be uncoupled from the eu accession negotiating process. but i must stress that i welcome the fact that turkey is hosting the largest refugee population in the world.
in writing. ‒ turkey represents one of, if not the, most important partners for the eu in the coming years. on migration, energy and security, both north towards russia and east towards the continuing violence in syria and northern iraq, as well as in resolving the frozen conflict in the caucasus between armenia and azerbaijan, turkey is an important partner, and it is vital to recognise this. that said i would agree with the report’s view on a number of areas relating to human rights. there have been worrying signs that progress has not only stalled but is in danger of going into reverse, in particular with regard to journalistic freedoms. to build our partnership with turkey further i would hope to see reform looking towards the upholding of fundamental human rights by the turkish government. it is important going forward that we work closely with turkey on the migration crisis while recognising the work that turkey has already done to help settle refugees as well as in the ongoing struggle against the terrorist group daesh in syria. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i echo the grave concern expressed in this report about the worsening of human rights violations by turkish authorities, as seen with the taking over of newspapers, oppression and harassment of journalists, persecution of the kurdish minority, and violations of the rights of refugees in the country. the eu’s dialogue with turkey must centre on putting these wrongs to right. any agreement between the eu with the turkish government must uphold human rights and humanitarian norms, including the rights of refugees and the principle of non-refoulement.
in writing. – this report provides an update on albania’s efforts to meet the hurdles required for eu membership. the report highlights some of the key problems facing albania, including high unemployment and poverty rates, corruption, organised crime, child trafficking, freedom of the press, rule of law and judicial independence, and references the need for an improved political process, which is currently endangered by a lack of dialogue between parties. however, it welcomes albania’s inclusion on the list of so-called ‘safe countries of origin’ for refugees, as well as welcoming albania’s full alignment with the eu foreign and security policy, and economic structural reforms. as a result, i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe in further eu expansion, and therefore had no option but to vote against this progress report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on albania which highlights my shared enthusiasm and delight over how much albania has achieved in 2015, considering its apparent stagnation in previous years. the report also encourages the government of albania to keep up these reform efforts, which the albanian people cannot be kept waiting for any longer. furthermore, i support the opening of accession negotiations with albania as soon as possible, if not for the conditionality incentives and pressures that would transform the country in a positive way.
in writing. – this report calls on bosnia-herzegovina to engage in various reforms, particularly against corruption and organised crime, human trafficking, the rule of law, discrimination on the basis of gender or sexuality, and reform of public administration. it also highlights some of the shortcomings of bosnia-herzegovina in the establishment of a democratic, multi-ethnic and stable state. despite these and other issues, the report strongly supports eu integration and the accession of bosnia and herzegovina to the eu. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe in further eu expansion, and therefore had no option but to vote against this progress report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is against the further expansion of the eu. the system of annual reports on the progress of candidate and potential candidate countries towards alignment with the acquis communautaire is part of this process. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report on bosnia and herzegovina gives a great overview of what improvements the country has made in the last year. i welcome the eu membership application and hope that this will be a positive step towards a better political situation in the country. the long process towards accession will require full commitment and enhanced reforms, both democratic and economic. while corruption and press freedoms are generally improving, as well as their commitment to a freer market, there is still much to do and reports like this remind us that the reform process is long, but also show an optimistic light on the development of a country which was embroiled with such violence only two decades ago.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it was very positive to see bosnia’s formal submission of an eu membership application; this is a vital step on the road to further reform and the piecing together of a nation and society that has suffered far too much in the yugoslav wars. while those scars will always be there, it is important to recognise that bosnia-herzegovina has come a long way since the end of the war in 1995, and we must maintain this very positive momentum going forward to ensure that bosnia sees full and proper reform of both government and civil society. it is important that the path towards eu membership is a broad and inclusive process for the whole of society providing opportunities for bosnians. it also represents a vital opportunity to build the spirit of amity in the balkans. where before there was only recrimination and violence there are now the first beginnings of accord and perhaps even understanding. we look forward to a year of significant reforms in bosnia-herzegovina for the benefit of all bosnians.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the country’s formal submission of an eu membership application. bosnia-herzegovina has come a long way since the end of the war in 1995 with its terrible legacy of ethnic violence, and so we must keep this positive momentum alive. it is important that the path towards eu membership is a broad and inclusive process for the whole of society. i look forward to a year of significant reforms in bosnia-herzegovina for the benefit of all bosnians and in particular the country’s youth. as a member of the delegation for relations with bosnia and herzegovina, i have made a commitment to developing a deep relationship with grassroots civil society organisations and, in particular, young people. i have made several visits to the country in order to get to know and build long-lasting trusting relationships with young people, who i believe hold the future of this country in their hands: they must not be let down. i believe that the eu must, in its relations with third countries, encourage and allow people-to-people contacts and give more consideration to the power of civil society. i have been particularly supportive of an eu-funded arts and democracy project, the complete freedom of truth, which won the european citizens award last year.
in writing. ‒ whilst i sympathise with the aims of this report, i felt that i had little option but to vote against a report which considers that such matters are best dealt with by the european union, further integration and legislation at an inappropriate level.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative report. it called for the eu to create a definition for ‘energy poverty’, calls for investigating the possibility of an eu wide minimum income, wants an eu pillar of social rights and use of various eu funds. while ukip supports more action to help those suffering poverty, it should be done by our own accountable national government, not by unelected bureaucrats in brussels. if we left the eu we would have more money to help solve these problems and not be constrained by eu legislation which is making the situation worse.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative report. it called for the eu to create a definition for ‘energy poverty’, calls for investigating the possibility of an eu wide minimum income, wants an eu pillar of social rights and use of various eu funds. while ukip supports more action to help those suffering poverty, it should be done by our own accountable national government, not by unelected bureaucrats in brussels. if we left the eu we would have more money to help solve these problems and not be constrained by eu legislation which is making the situation worse.
in writing. ‒ 1 in 5 of the uk population live below the poverty line. we urgently need to address this problem in a comprehensive manner and that is why i support this report
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative report. it called for the eu to create a definition for ‘energy poverty’, calls for investigating the possibility of an eu wide minimum income, wants an eu pillar of social rights and use of various eu funds. while ukip supports more action to help those suffering poverty, it should be done by our own accountable national government, not by unelected bureaucrats in brussels. if we left the eu we would have more money to help solve these problems and not be constrained by eu legislation which is making the situation worse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it calls for a holistic approach on poverty and social exclusion on the basis of best practices. 1 in 5 of the uk population live below the poverty line. therefore, we urgently need to address this problem in a comprehensive manner.
in writing. ‒ 1 in 5 of the uk population live below the poverty line. we urgently need to address this problem in a comprehensive manner and that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative report. it called for the eu to create a definition for ‘energy poverty’, calls for investigating the possibility of an eu wide minimum income, wants an eu pillar of social rights and use of various eu funds. while ukip supports more action to help those suffering poverty, it should be done by our own accountable national government, not by unelected bureaucrats in brussels. if we left the eu we would have more money to help solve these problems and not be constrained by eu legislation which is making the situation worse.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative report. it called for the eu to create a definition for ‘energy poverty’, calls for investigating the possibility of an eu wide minimum income, wants an eu pillar of social rights and use of various eu funds. while ukip supports more action to help those suffering poverty, it should be done by our own accountable national government, not by unelected bureaucrats in brussels. if we left the eu we would have more money to help solve these problems and not be constrained by eu legislation which is making the situation worse.
in writing. ‒ 20% of the uk population lives below the poverty line and we need urgent action to address this problem. this needs to be comprehensive and effective, which is why i have supported this report today. the uk, and other member states, must make more efforts to reach the anti-poverty targets: meeting minimum income schemes above 60% of the national median income in all member states, a european energy observatory and a winter heating disconnection moratorium are all essential tools in this respect.
in writing. ‒ as an anti-austerity politician, i am delighted by the adoption of this report setting out a programme to tackle poverty and rising household costs across europe. the report represents a step towards the european pillar of social rights, and affirms that there can be no fight against poverty without a fight against gender inequality. as a lead on the report on behalf of the women’s rights committee, i particularly welcome the inclusion of a strong gender perspective. the financial crisis and subsequent austerity measures can be seen to negatively affect women more than men, causing a feminisation of poverty. when women do not have enough money to pay the bills, it is their dependents who also suffer, particularly children and elderly relatives. women are more likely to be in precarious employment, so managing household budgets to ensure that children are warm, clothed and fed can be very challenging when energy and other utility costs are high. the u.k. is the world’s 6th richest country and it is scandalous that so many of our youngest citizens are living in poverty. when a child goes to school hungry they cannot concentrate so their education suffers. that is why a holistic approach to energy policy is required.
in writing. ‒ whilst i support the principle of international development and recognise the role which the private sector can play in creating progress, this report leans far too heavily on the commission to achieve this goal and i therefore voted against the final resolution. however, i supported some amendments, specifically those respecting the sovereign rights of nations and the amendment on the need to improve the financial sector in developing nations.
in writing. ‒ this report is something ukip supports in essence and would advocate on a national level. the increase in the private sector in developing nations has led to positive results for the poorest nations and people. unfortunately, due to a matter of principle we cannot support this report because of the heavy inclusion of the commission and the eu which ukip are principally against.
in writing. – this report is something ukip supports in essence and would advocate on a national level. the increase in the private sector in developing nations has led to positive results for the poorest nations and people. unfortunately, due to a matter of principle we cannot support this report because of the heavy inclusion of the commission and the eu which ukip are principally against.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the sustainable development goals signed last year at the un, the world has put forward an ambitious development agenda for the next 15 years with the intention of eliminating poverty and ensuring that no-one gets left behind. i voted in favour of this report because the private sector can and should play a greater role in development in order to help bridge the gap between national development aid and the needs of developing countries. the involvement must be well regulated and ensure that that poverty reduction is the main goal of private companies when involved in development.
in writing. – this report is something ukip supports in essence and would advocate on a national level. the increase in the private sector in developing nations has led to positive results for the poorest nations and people. unfortunately, due to a matter of principle we cannot support this report because of the heavy inclusion of the commission and the eu which ukip are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. in the context of the sustainable development goals signed last year at the un, the world has put forward an ambitious development agenda for the next 15 years with the intention of eliminating poverty and ensuring that no-one gets left behind. however, there is a gap between the amount of money that is needed in order to make this agenda a success and the amount that the public sector is able to give in the form of development aid. the private sector can and should play a greater role in development in order to help bridge the gap between national development aid and the needs of developing countries. the involvement must be well regulated and ensure that poverty reduction is the main goal of private companies when involved in development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the private sector can and should play a greater role in development in order to help bridge the gap between national development aid and the needs of developing countries. the involvement must be well regulated and ensure that that poverty reduction is the main goal of private companies when involved in development.
in writing. ‒ this report is something ukip supports in essence and would advocate on a national level. the increase in the private sector in developing nations has led to positive results for the poorest nations and people. unfortunately, due to a matter of principle we cannot support this report because of the heavy inclusion of the commission and the eu which ukip are principally against.
in writing. ‒ this report is something ukip supports in essence and would advocate on a national level. the increase in the private sector in developing nations has led to positive results for the poorest nations and people. unfortunately, due to a matter of principle we cannot support this report because of the heavy inclusion of the commission and the eu which ukip are principally against.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the sustainable development goals which were signed at the un last year, the eu – and moreover the world – has committed itself to an ambitious development agenda for the next fifteen years, with the intention of eliminating poverty and ensuring that no-one gets left behind. i am very much in support of this report, which echoes this commitment made at the un, and it highlights the gap between the amount of money that is needed to make this agenda a reality and the amount of money that the public sector is actually able to give in the form of development aid. which is why, in lieu of comprehensive public sector involvement, i support the notion that the private sector can and should play a greater role in the development towards bridging the gap between national development aid and the needs of those countries who are still developing. this involvement needs to be extremely well regulated, to avoid misuse of money, and it needs to ensure that poverty reduction is the main goal of private companies when they are involved in development projects across the world.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the sustainable development goals signed last year at the un, the global community has put forward an ambitious development agenda for the next 15 years with the intention of eliminating poverty and ensuring that no-one gets left behind. however, there is a gap between the amount of money that is needed in order to ensure this agenda is successful and the amount that the public sector is able to give in the form of development aid. the private sector can and should play a greater role in development in order to help bridge the gap between national development aid and the needs of developing countries. however, the recent panama papers revelations on the facilitation of tax avoidance practices by eu member states have shown that there must be protections in place to stop the exploitation of developing countries by foreign investors. labour meps voted to support a report calling on greater investment from the private sector in international development but only if this investment is well regulated and serves development goals, chief amongst which is poverty reduction.
blue-card question.– thank you for taking the question. you use an interesting phrase, the term ‘future-proofing’. surely it has been proven that the efforts of the eu to future-proof against market forces are often hopelessly impotent, and, indeed, sometimes counterproductive, by the failure to deal with the steel crisis, an issue which incidentally i was appalled to see was kicked into the long grass earlier on in this session. but does that not show that any effort to future-proof against market forces is beyond the capability of even a union of this size?
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, thanks to the eib all british taxpayers seem to do is fund loans to export british jobs to countries including turkey, china and russia. let us take a look at steel, a hot topic in the uk, on which the commission has admitted its responsibility for banning rescue and restructuring aid unless it is driven by the market, i.e. not state aid. so why then are british steel workers subsidising foreign steel companies in the form of soft loans totalling gbp 80 million? one of these companies mentioned as having loans under consideration is the wuhan iron and steel corporation, the world’s eighth largest producer based on tonnage. its products now are subject to 36.6% anti-dumping tariffs. the loan was to reduce the cost of energy. one of the main complaints of tata is the high cost of energy in the uk. another plant, in guangdong, was given eur 35 million in the interests of improving energy efficiency. the eib has been making loans to state-owned chinese steel companies who are then able to sell back to the eu below cost price, and our own uk government has been powerless to stop it. this situation has been branded insane by a director of a uk steel company although the words i would use are ‘an absolute disgrace’. the north of england in particular is suffering from higher and higher unemployment, lower wages and fewer career opportunities, yet our own taxes are being given to chinese steel plants, which has helped put our workers on the dole. we should have learned from the loan to ford, which cost this country thousands of jobs, but clearly we just keep giving our money away.
madam president, what can a bank like the european investment bank achieve? this year’s report from parliament includes suggestions for improving the bank’s performance in several areas. it could help us crack down on tax avoidance by ending loans to companies registered in tax havens and providing full transparency on beneficial ownership. it could help us to fund the transition to a renewable energy future, and be a catalyst for making industry more sustainable. indeed, the parliamentary report includes a green demand to boost investment in sustainable industry. but the eib is currently funding projects that do the reverse. in the uk, the bank is investing gbp 500 million in the construction of incinerators, including the deeply unpopular incinerator in st dennis in cornwall. to stop such destructive investment, we are calling for stronger environmental assessment of projects and a full audit of the skills of eib board members to assess whether they are suitably qualified to make judgments about the environmental impact of projects seeking eib funding.
rapporteur.– madam president, like the previous speaker i would like to use all my time now and not come back at the end of the debate. i wrote 33 reports for the decentralised agencies. this was a lot of work, and therefore i want to thank my staff – not only the s&d staff, but also the budget control secretariat – for their help, plus the shadow rapporteurs worked with me very closely. at this point, i would like to make a general point about the discharge process and to thank all the rapporteurs for all the discharge reports, particularly the rapporteur for the general discharge – i think she produced a good and well balanced report, which i think will be supported by a majority of this house. for the agencies, i would also like to thank the commission and the court of auditors and all the agencies for working very closely with me. overall, the agencies received pleasing reports from the court of auditors. i shadowed the agencies’ discharge last year, and i am pleased to report that there has been a great deal of progress since then. there were fewer comments from the court and, importantly, there were no qualified opinions. this means the court found no reason to call into question the reliability of the accounts, and the transactions underlying the accounts were also legal and were regular in all material respects. i am also pleased to report that the agencies are well advanced in terms of the implementation of actions foreseen in the common approach agreed in 2012, reaching a 99% rate of completion of agency-specific actions. also, 93% of agencies stated that they now share services with other agencies and institutions, and 75% of the agencies have cooperation agreements. i would therefore encourage all agencies to look at this further in order to make increased efficiency savings. agencies now also put in place guidelines for inter-agency procurement procedures and for agencies’ participation in commission-led procurement procedures, which again will, hopefully, lead to efficiencies. most agencies have already met the 5% required staff reductions. however, i know many agencies are concerned that they are also being asked to contribute 5% extra into a redeployment pool, and i think this is something which needs to be looked at. over 80% of all agencies have anti-fraud strategies in place. more than 90% of agencies have policies in place on the publication of the cvs and declarations of interest of the management board members and also senior staff and in-house experts. so the picture is looking pretty good, but of course – as with all reports – there are some concerns and some areas which need to be improved. for example, since january 2014 four agencies have been in the same negotiation process with a host member state about headquarters agreements. some good progress has been made, but i would urge all member states to conclude negotiations with their agencies in order that those headquarters agreements can be put in place as quickly as possible. on carryovers, which is a topic that is raised most years, i am pleased to say that most of the carryovers were planned. however, a higher level of cancellations of carryovers from previous years was noted in some cases, which may indicate that the appropriations carried over were made on the basis of overestimated needs or were otherwise not justified. i am pleased, however, to note that most of the agencies concerned are putting in place measures to deal with this issue. in some agencies there is still an issue over gender balance, particularly in senior management positions, and i have asked the agencies network to provide us, as the discharge authority, with a detailed report on steps being taken to address this problem. in addition to this, i would also ask member states to pursue gender balance when they make appointments to board members for the agencies. lastly, i wanted to call on agencies to further strengthen their efforts to improve their communication policies, expand their visibility and raise awareness of their activities and achievements. all these agencies do a huge amount of good work for citizens right across the european union, and they should publicise this work more than they have been doing in the past. that would raise awareness of what they do, but i also think it would be good for the individual agencies as well. the budgetary control committee voted overwhelmingly to grant discharge for all the agencies. this was due to them all receiving an unqualified opinion from the court of auditors and because of the progress which they demonstrated in recent years. i therefore hope that tomorrow, when this house votes on the agencies’ discharge, we would once again grant discharge to all the agencies in my report.
madam president, this is not about one attack– physicians for human rights has documented 358 separate attacks on medical facilities in syria since 2011 alone. we have heard from colleagues about the recent attacks which have hit médecins sans frontières’ health centres in afghanistan and yemen. the aid worker database says that 610 aid workers internationally lost their lives working for major international organisations in the last year, for those statistics are available. we have to do better. we have to do better as a european union to strengthen the international legal protection. we have to do better with our member states in order to avoid any complicity whatsoever in such attacks. and we have to condemn the terrorists and their armed groups that use human shields and deliberately ensure civilians are vulnerable to those attacks. there is something truly tragic that victims of violence go to hospitals as a refuge from war, to heal their bodies, and then find themselves subject to further violence and death. we condemned isis when they attacked humanitarian workers. if we are better than them, then we have to ensure that we never do so.
on behalf of the efdd group.– thank you, richard; always good to see you in the chair. the european union talks a great deal about democracy and transparency, and so its dealings should be open to the scrutiny of the european citizens that it claims to represent. one issue that concerns many people is ttip – the proposed transatlantic trade and investment partnership trade treaty between the usa and the eu. ttip is being negotiated in secret. meps have no say in those negotiations; we cannot influence their outcome. so far i have had over 20 000 e—mails from constituents concerned about ttip, which will open up our public services and the national health service to us corporations. of particular concern is the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism that would allow private companies to sue governments in tribunals should those governments try to protect their national interests. last week, president obama came to london, where he threatened the british public against voting to leave the european union in the referendum on 23 june. how low has britain sunk when a foreign leader can come to threaten us in our own capital while our prime minister looks on approvingly? it makes one want to vomit. obama said that we should vote not to leave the eu or there will be no trade deal with the usa anytime soon, and indeed that we would have to wait at the end of the queue. he overlooked the fact that the uk is a major trading partner of the usa and yet we have no trade deal. he overlooked the fact that the usa is one of the top ten trading partners with the eu, and yet it has no trade deal with the eu. when britain leaves the eu, precisely nothing will change regarding our trading arrangements with the usa. obama wants britain to remain in the eu because he wants ttip forced through on all of us. the british people should stop deluding themselves. we do not have a special relationship with the usa; we have a servile relationship. the american political establishment is not our friend; it only cares about big business and the interests of international finance. it is in the best interests of the british people to vote to leave the european union on 23 june and to implement that decision as quickly as possible.
mr president, commissioner, minister, as a member of the committee on petitions, we have received hundreds of petitions, mostly from parents, about child welfare questions. we have heard first hand of the problems faced in securing the best interests of the child in cross-border cases from some very desperate parents. there are estimated to be up to two million british people living around the rest of the eu and an equal number of eu nationals living in the uk. freedom of movement has brought our citizens unprecedented opportunities, but now we must ensure that our legal systems and judicial cooperation develop at a similar pace, especially when families find themselves in a difficult situation. the concerns raised by citizens demonstrate the clear need to enhance and develop cooperation and information exchange across borders. we have heard calls for a more common understanding on the best interests of the child in line with the un convention on the rights of the child, which must always be paramount, and i would like to hear from the commission what is intended in this respect. family law is a national competence, and member states therefore have a strong responsibility to ensure that they address the increasing pressure on social workers and social services by ensuring that family courts and social services are fully supported and well resourced and that parents and children receive the support needed to understand the legal proceedings they are engaged in, and their rights. finally, we need to stay at the table to negotiate, to ensure the rights of british children and other children in britain, and that means we need to remain inside the eu.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner and the relevant authorities to make particular efforts to involve children and young people more fully in decisions affecting them. participation is also a children’s right, but it is frequently infringed and poorly promoted. working with organisations experienced in child participation is, in my view, a good way to develop institutional practice that would better protect the best interests of the child.
mr president, thank you to the rapporteur for this report and other colleagues too who have taken a very progressive and compassionate view. it is important that we say loud and clear in this debate that the situation of women carers is affected directly by harmful austerity policies, by cuts to public services across europe, and notably by the conservative government in the uk. when women are forced to take up care duties and they are not recognised or supported, we experience a regression: a return to less gender equality. we never talk about the day-to-day hardship that women carers face, or their mental health – and indeed that issue is not really addressed adequately in the report. we need the commission and member states to consider sharing best practice on mental health support for formal or informal carers who are left in situations of poverty or hardship with no support. we need to empower local civil society organisations who work on these issues to act and take every step to help the needs of the most vulnerable.
mr president, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked to produce such a strong report, and particularly the rapporteur, with whom i have a very good working relationship – thank you, terry. digital technology shapes every aspect of our lives and will continue to transform our society in profound ways. as we move ahead, gender inequalities are reflected in the digital world, but we must grasp the nettle and use the opportunity these transformations provide to eliminate inequalities. there is an urgent need to act to involve more women and girls in the it sector and to close the gender gap in digital industries. we often talk about women and girls in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (stem), but i would like to emphasise the need for us to build bridges between the arts and the stem sectors, turning stem into steam. we need more creative, artistic young people to come into stem fields. this is a wonderful opportunity to bring more women and girls into the it industries, and i hope the commission and the member states take note of that vital synergy.
mr president, i welcome this report and this debate on equality and empowering women and really would like to echo the points that the rapporteur has made. firstly, having worked in the it sector, i am concerned about how few women are actually working other than in administration in the it sector, and it is really important that we address these issues at a very early age – at school level, even at primary level – to encourage young girls to take up the subjects that would enable them to be programmers, to be analysts, and to be very active in the it sector. secondly, i was speaking the other day to a couple of young female entrepreneurs in the digital sector who had both chosen to leave the eu. they were from europe and they had gone to the us, because they felt that was where the opportunities were. it is really important that we do not lose that talent and that we address these issues: that we take women entrepreneurs in technology as seriously as we take men.
mr president, those in the british government and on the right who represent the north of ireland and here advocate a ‘leave’ vote in the upcoming brexit referendum are being irresponsible and reckless. the constituency that i care about most is my own – the north is a net beneficiary of eu funding to the tune of eur 3.5 billion. social enterprise, charities and community groups – the third sector – all benefit from eu membership. international financial institutes warn of a sharp contraction to economies in the north and in the south post—brexit. our joint first minister, martin mcguinness, has worked tirelessly to attract billions in foreign direct investments to the north as a gateway to 500 million eu customers. our farmers are reliant on huge eu financial support – our hill farmers, for instance, have fought a very long and hard campaign for a fairer flat—rate system, for a pillar i system. the dup and elements of the british government and the eurosceptic rights are willing to play fast and loose, but i can tell you that sinn féin is not.
[microphone not switched on] of the european court of justice ruled that germany could not extradite hungarian and romanian citizens to their own countries unless it could be proved that their prisons are free from inhuman and degrading conditions. if we cannot extradite foreign nationals to their own country’s prisons, then we cannot possibly extradite british citizens to the same prisons. innocent british victims of european arrest warrants have long testified to the degrading and inhuman conditions in greek, spanish and hungarian prisons, to name just three. i shall now be writing to the home secretary, asking her to suspend the extradition of british citizens under european arrest warrants to any eu member state where there is any question whatsoever of the prison conditions meting out degrading and inhuman treatment. that should take care of most of them. britain needs an extradition treaty that restores the traditional protections for our own citizens under our own law, and we can only do that outside of the european union.
mr president, i, like 30 million sikhs across the world, was deeply shocked by the terrorist attack at the nanaksar satsang darbar gurdwara in essen, germany, last week. as the only elected sikh parliamentarian in europe, i condemn this atrocious act and offer my heartfelt sympathy to those injured, and to the worshippers there. no faith, no religious group or community should be targeted in this way. it is completely incomprehensible as to why radicalised youngsters would target a place of worship of a religion that shelters the homeless and feeds the hungry across europe. i can only guess their objective was to sow mistrust amongst us. it is now vitally important that the german authorities act with haste and deal with the perpetrators with the full force of the law, to give confidence not just to sikhs in essen, but also in europe, that any threat against them is taken as seriously as any other terrorist atrocity that has occurred in europe.
blue-card question.– i would like to ask the gentleman: given that wages in turkey are so low – probably a quarter of the average across the eu – does he agree with me that turkish accession could replace the migration crisis that the eu is currently failing to solve with a migration crisis every bit as big?
madam president, first of all, i think we all agree that something has to be done about the migrant crisis. the scale of the numbers coming this year will no doubt reach biblical proportions. however, where i fundamentally disagree with you all, is in making such a multi—billion pound deal with a country like turkey. let’s look at turkey. it is a country that is barely democratic and where free speech is increasingly attacked. it is a country that has a disgraceful human rights record, it is a country that is accused of aiding and abetting islamic state, and it is a country that is going through the process of creeping islamification. turkey is also not geographically european. only 3% of turkey actually falls within europe and it borders places that clearly want to harm us: syria, iraq and iran. so you would think we would run a mile, but no, part of this deal includes an agreement to quicken up turkish accession to the european union. i remember at a press conference in 2007 sitting there in disbelief when the then president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, spoke about the eu as the first non—imperial empire. this deal simply reinforces that perception. if turkey does eventually join the european union – and it is a position supported by every other british political party – then i believe it would be a disaster. indeed, by the time turkey joins, it will have the largest population in europe and it is predicted that, within the first ten years of being a member, 15 million turks will drift west. that will alter the balance of power within the european union, not only economically, but also culturally. at present we often complain about a german—dominated europe. but if we continue down this path of madness, i fear that we will be left with a turkish-dominated europe. i am sure that is something that we can all agree we do not want to see. but there is a light, there is a beacon because we, the british, have an opportunity to put a stop to this. we have a referendum on 23 june and i honestly believe that the threat of turkey becoming a member of this club will encourage the british people to say ‘enough is enough’, and we will vote to leave and take back control. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i think it is quite obvious what we need to do about the refugee crisis. we need to learn from australia, which built a ring of steel around their country to ensure that the boats stopped coming and people stopped dying in the sea. it is simple; it just takes the willpower to do it. but the answer is not making shoddy agreements, multi-billion pound agreements with undemocratic states where women are treated as second-class citizens, where newspapers are being shut down routinely, where free speech is being eroded. turkey has no place within a european union but these guys, mr timmermans et al., have agreed as part of this deal to quicken up turkish accession. we must say no to this, we must ensure that turkey does not join the european union. but in the end, after 23 june, i might be out of a job, and britain will be free, democratic and prosperous once again.
mr president, the proposals we are voting on today are a welcome harmonisation of railway safety and technical rules. the new system will be subject also to a pragmatic three-year implementation period and, i’m glad to say, also one year possibility of extension, if necessary. overall it’s very good news that, as a result of this legislation, operators and manufacturers will find it easier to run trains across europe, and the safety of passengers and workers on cross-border services will be protected more effectively. technological development in railways is increasing internationally, and this must be recognised and supported in the right way. we also need to encourage a shift to rail travel away from more environmentally damaging modes of travel, and all of this development assistance in this. crucially, although the three texts are largely technical they do include provisions designed to promote a safety culture and protect reporting of incidents – and this is very welcome – as well as the sharing of best practice and information.
mr president, i can’t support all of this package, but i do welcome those bits which will make it easier to do cross-border operations and those which will improve interoperability. i also want to thank my colleague mr zīle for the work he’s done on this report, which will reduce costs and delays in getting a new cross-border train model approved. railways in europe are still a restricted marketplace, especially in comparison with many other transport sectors. for example, why can’t i get a train directly from birmingham to frankfurt? why does the eurostar still only go from london to a handful of places in europe? if we want to improve railways we need to focus on what passengers want. and in the 21st century they want more options, more flexibility and less hassle. interoperability is key to this. it’s technically possible to have one ticket for your bus, train and plane. we need to make that a reality so customers can be confident the connections can work. this will help not only railways but also regional airports and the transport sector as a whole.
whilst it is laudable to look at harmonising the railway system across eu member states, we in the uk already have probably the safest network in europe. standardisation and interoperability can be a good thing, but i get worried when the best standards are compromised to satisfy 28 member states. great britain pioneered railways, and fine examples of british railway engineering can still be seen across the globe. we have some of the best technical standards built for safety over many years, like hs 2, which is another eu project. interoperability of a rail system will not benefit the uk, so why do we need it? we do not, but as members of the european union we will have to adopt it anyway, and at great cost to the british taxpayer. a hidden cost, like so many which are never included in their cost of membership – unless we vote to leave on 23 june, then we can do what is right for britain is instead of what is demanded by the european union.
in writing. – this report was concerned with concluding the adoption of protocols for croatia in the common aviation area agreements signed by the eu with georgia, removing barriers involving third parties. however, the report is further aimed at the extension of the single european sky policy across europe, which is pushing a single liberalised aviation market that has negative implications for national sovereignty in overseeing the aviation industry. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, on the grounds that i believe bilateral agreements on matters such as aviation should be a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. – ukip voted against this because any aviation agreements should remain a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because any aviation agreements should remain a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this recommendation. ukip does not support the continued accession of any nation to the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because any aviation agreements should remain a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, on the grounds that i believe bilateral agreements on matters such as aviation should be a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. – ukip voted against this because any aviation agreements should remain a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, as the purpose of the protocol is simply to allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia and to provide for the necessary ensuing linguistic adaptations.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because any aviation agreements should remain a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal to conclude a protocol which amends the common aviation area agreement between the eu and its member states. the european parliament’s consent is required and therefore so is my vote.
in writing. – this report was concerned with concluding the adoption of protocols for croatia in the common aviation area agreements signed by the eu with israel, removing barriers involving third parties. however, the report is further aimed at the extension of the single european sky policy across europe, which is pushing a single liberalised aviation market that has negative implications for national sovereignty in overseeing the aviation industry. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. – i voted against, on the grounds that i believe bilateral agreements on matters such as aviation should be a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. – ukip voted against this because any aviation agreements should remain a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because any aviation agreements should remain a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because any aviation agreements should remain a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because any aviation agreements should remain a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, on the grounds that i believe bilateral agreements on matters such as aviation should be a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. – with my fellow ukip meps, i voted against this because bilateral agreements on matters such as aviation should remain a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, as the purpose of the protocol is simply to allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel, and to provide for the necessary ensuing linguistic adaptations.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because any aviation agreements should remain a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation on the draft council decision, in light of the recent accession of the republic of croatia, on the conclusion of the eu-israel euro-mediterranean aviation agreement requires the consent of the european parliament, and i wish to aid the finalisation of the necessary protocol by voting in favour.
in writing. – this report was concerned with the accession of croatia with regard to customs cooperation. there was nothing controversial in the report and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, on the grounds that i believe bilateral agreements on matters such as customs cooperation should be a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. – ukip meps voted against this resolution. ukip does not support the continued accession of any nation to the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this resolution. ukip does not support the continued accession of any nation to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i welcome croatia’s recommended accession to the naples ii convention, which will be a useful tool in assisting the fight against illegal cross-border trade and the illicit traffic in drugs and weapons in the adriatic region.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this resolution. ukip does not support the continued accession of any nation to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, on the grounds that i believe bilateral agreements on matters such as customs cooperation should be a sole competence of the sovereign country with which the agreement is made.
in writing. – ukip meps voted against this resolution. ukip does not support the continued accession of any nation to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as its purpose is simply to allow croatia to accede to the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this resolution. ukip does not support the continued accession of any nation to the european union.
in writing. ‒ since the fall of the iron curtain at the end of the last century, the republic of croatia has made real and tangible commitments in terms of delivering a free society to its citizens. the biggest step towards this was its accession to the european union. however, it is important that this is not the end of its integration into europe and the international community, which will benefit the country so much. it is in interest of the people of the croatian republic that the country accedes to all the relevant conventions as swiftly and smoothly as possible.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of bolesław g. piecha , who is a polish ecr-pis member of the european parliament. the request for the waiver of immunity concerned a traffic road infraction, whereby mr piecha had driven at a speed of 90 km/h instead of 60 km/h. he was sanctioned with a fine, which he wishes to pay.
in writing. ‒ as this was a secret ballot, for reasons of transparency and democracy i wish to place on record that i voted in favour of waiving the member’s immunity.
in writing. – ukip voted for the waiver of immunity because the offence in question took place before mr piecha became an mep.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for the waiver of immunity because the offence in question took place before mr piecha became an mep.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for the waiver of immunity because the offence in question took place before mr piecha became an mep.
in writing. ‒ as this was a secret ballot, for reasons of transparency and democracy i wish to place on record that i voted in favour of waiving the member’s immunity.
in writing. – like my fellow ukip members, i voted for the waiver of immunity because the offence in question took place before mr piecha became an mep.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for the waiver of immunity because the offence in question took place before mr piecha became an mep.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which was concerned with the brussels iia regulation (ec) no 2201/2003. this was an important motion as the enforcement of family law decisions, particularly in custody cases, is a matter which needs to be urgently addressed. the resolution provides recommendations to the commission and member states on how to address the shortcomings in the upcoming review of the regulation. it calls for the interests of the child to be paramount in custody cases, and it also calls for a proper assessment of individual cases in family-related issues, which should not be hindered by budgetary cuts as a result of austerity measures. people (primarily women) compelled to use the family courts should not feel strained or be caused additional stress by an under-resourced centre only nominally dedicated to family welfare. importantly, the motion requested that member states designate specialised chambers within family courts, or cross-border mediation bodies, to deal with cross-border child-related cases, and it stressed the need to establish minimum standards for the hearing of a child in national civil proceedings, in accordance with article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. – ukip voted against this because the regulation of adoption is a matter of national competence and this should remain the case.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the regulation of adoption is a matter of national competence and this should remain the case.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the regulation of adoption is a matter of national competence and this should remain the case.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the regulation of adoption is a matter of national competence and this should remain the case.
in writing. ‒ safeguarding children is of paramount importance in the eu, from birmingham to bucharest, and tallinn to turin – and should be taken into account in policy-making. with this in mind, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i believe that regulations on adoption should be determined by the member states. this should be a matter of national competence: there is no compelling case for harmonisation – which often drags us down to the lowest common denominator rather than improving the situation.
in writing. – ukip voted against this because the regulation of adoption is a matter of national competence and this should remain the case.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the regulation of adoption is a matter of national competence and this should remain the case.
in writing. ‒ it is not controversial to endeavour to safeguard the best interests of children across the eu. child abuse, abduction, custody problems, neglect and poor quality of care are not things that obligingly stop at the english channel. they do not suddenly disappear once one crosses over the pyrenees into spain, nor vanish on the other side of the øresund bridge. the best interest of the child must be paramount in all eu policy and in all eu legislation, including the revision of the brussels iia regulation which relates to childcare issues.
in writing. ‒ as a children’s rights champion, i welcome the adoption of the resolution which promotes measures to better protect the best interests of children in cross-border parental custody disputes, adoption decisions and cases of abduction by parents within the eu. by adopting the resolution, meps urge eu countries to designate specialised chambers within family courts or cross-border mediation bodies to handle transnational cases involving children in the eu. they also stress the need for the commission and member states to lay down rules on the automatic recognition of domestic adoption documents issued in other eu countries. the resolution follows hundreds of petitions on child-related cases received by parliament’s committee on petitions. i personally want to emphasise the importance of children’s participation in decisions that concern them and impact on them, and i hope public authorities at all levels will improve the access of children to decision making.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy and transparency, given that the votes of individual meps were not formally recorded, i would like to confirm for the record that i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy and transparency, given that the votes of individual meps were not formally recorded, i would like to confirm for the record that i abstained on this vote.
in writing. – this report was part of a trio of reports which were purportedly concerned with improving and changing the structures of the european rail network. however, the railway package as a whole moves the sector in the direction of a single, more competitive, liberalised railway sector and the creation of a single european railway agency. whilst the three resolutions, including this vote, were largely concerned with removing technical barriers in inter-eu cross-border rail transport, the overarching aim was that of competitive liberalisation, often at the expense of the ordinary citizen. moreover, the package aims to do away with ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies who wish to enter the market. this constitutes a reduction in member states’ control over the sector, and is not a matter for the eu to be deciding on. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy and transparency, given that the votes of individual meps were not formally recorded, i would like to confirm for the record that i voted in favour of the proposal to reject the council position.
in writing. – ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy and transparency, given that the votes of individual meps were not formally recorded, i would like to confirm for the record that i voted in favour of the proposal to reject the council position.
in writing. – ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this, because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which will extend the role of the european agency for railways, in line with the interoperability and safety directives. the agency, under this legislation, will be able to delegate specific tasks to national safety authorities on the basis of contractual agreements, allowing the people with the best expertise in running a nation’s railway system to maintain the control they need, while enabling the european dimension to make the system work better. this agreement should avoid the need for equipment manufacturers or rail operators to duplicate regulatory applications and it will also contribute to ensuring consistency within the european traffic management system. all of this should, hopefully, result in a lowering of ticket prices and improve the quality and management of europe’s rail system.
in writing. – this report was part of a trio of reports which were purportedly concerned with improving and changing the structures of the european rail network. however, the railway package as a whole moves the sector in the direction of a single, more competitive, liberalised railway sector and the creation of a single european railway agency. whilst the three resolutions, including this vote, were largely concerned with removing technical barriers in inter-eu cross-border rail transport, the overarching aim was that of competitive liberalisation, often at the expense of the ordinary citizen. moreover, the package also aims to do away with ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies who wish to enter the market: this constitutes a reduction in member states’ control over the sector and it is not a matter for the eu to be deciding on. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy and transparency, given that the votes of individual meps were not formally recorded, i would like to confirm for the record that i voted in favour of the proposal to reject the council position.
in writing. – ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy and transparency, given that the votes of individual meps were not formally recorded, i would like to confirm for the record that i voted in favour of the proposal to reject the council position.
in writing. – ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this piece of legislation because it addresses the fact that european railways are neither efficient nor transparent: with more than 11 000 different national rules in terms of safety and interoperability, there is a lot of overlap and opacity. the report aims to update the rules around interoperability and to make room for the new needs arising from the opening of the market and the expected growth of rail’s share as a mode of transport, notably by clarifying existing rules on the use of technical specifications for interoperability, simplifying the long and costly authorisation procedures for rolling stock, energy and infrastructures and ensuring vehicle interoperability in the eu, through a european vehicle authorisation to be granted by the european railways agency, and the creation of a european register.
in writing. – this report was part of a trio of reports purportedly concerned with improving and changing the structures of the european rail network. however, the railway package as a whole moves the sector in the direction of a single, more competitive, liberalised railway sector and the creation of a single european railways agency. whilst the three resolutions, including this vote, were largely concerned with removing technical barriers in inter-eu cross-border rail transport, the overarching aim was that of competitive liberalisation, often at the expense of the ordinary citizen. moreover, the package also aims to do away with ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies who wish to enter the market. this constitutes a reduction in member states’ control over the sector and it is not a matter for the eu to be deciding on. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy and transparency, given that the votes of individual meps were not formally recorded, i would like to confirm for the record that i voted in favour of the proposal to reject the council position.
in writing. – ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy and transparency, given that the votes of individual meps were not formally recorded, i would like to confirm for the record that i voted in favour of the proposal to reject the council position.
in writing. – like my fellow ukip meps, i voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this because it is not for the eu to influence the railway network in the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the agreement should avoid the need for equipment manufacturers or rail operators to duplicate regulatory applications. consistency is very much needed within the european rail traffic management system and the agreement to which this report refers should contribute to ensuring that this need is met.
in writing. – this report was concerned with benchmark manipulation. a benchmark is a standard which is used every day to calculate the price – and risk – of financial instruments such as loans, mortgages, interest rates, swaps etc. prominent benchmarks such as the london inter-bank offered rate have been subject to manipulation by megabanks, either for market gains or to suggest enhanced financial ‘health’. this aim of the regulation was to improve the overall framework for benchmark—setting. however, the trilogue text did not improve on parliament’s text and the proposed regulation contains big loopholes which will allow manipulation to continue. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the united kingdom already has adequate legislation and regulation in this regard. i suspect that new rules will discourage firms from contributing information to benchmarks. consequently, the accuracy of such benchmarks is only likely to diminish following the adoption of this report. i therefore had no choice but to vote against.
in writing. – the uk already has adequate regulation of indices and benchmarks. the eu’s new requirements will discourage firms from contributing information to benchmarks and increase costs for those that continue to do so – making the service more expensive and less accurate.
in writing. ‒ the uk already has adequate regulation of indices and benchmarks. the eu’s new requirements will discourage firms from contributing information to benchmarks and increase costs for those that continue to do so – making the service more expensive and less accurate.
in writing. ‒ the uk already has adequate regulation of indices and benchmarks. the eu’s new requirements will discourage firms from contributing information to benchmarks and increase costs for those that continue to do so – making the service more expensive and less accurate.
in writing. ‒ the uk already has adequate regulation of indices and benchmarks. the eu’s new requirements will discourage firms from contributing information to benchmarks and increase costs for those that continue to do so – making the service more expensive and less accurate.
in writing. ‒ the united kingdom already has adequate legislation and regulation in this regard. i suspect that new rules will discourage firms from contributing information to benchmarks. consequently, the accuracy of such benchmarks is only likely to diminish following the adoption of this report. i therefore had no choice but to vote against.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, and i particularly welcome its regard for proportionality.
in writing. – the uk already has adequate regulation of indices and benchmarks. the eu’s new requirements will discourage firms from contributing information to benchmarks and increase costs for those that continue to do so – making the service more expensive and less accurate.
in writing. ‒ the uk already has adequate regulation of indices and benchmarks. the eu’s new requirements will discourage firms from contributing information to benchmarks and increase costs for those that continue to do so – making the service more expensive and less accurate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will ensure that proportionality is respected by the imposition of different requirements for the three benchmark categories: critical, significant and non-significant. furthermore, increasingly fewer ex-ante requirements are being imposed on non-critical benchmarks, including commodity benchmarks, which should/could be considered critical.
in writing. – the report contained a correct and exhaustive analysis of the data made available to the european parliament. it also contained requests for further information and data to be obtained from the commission, especially considering that the commission’s replies remain ambiguous in several aspects. it also regrets the commission’s delay of the review of the eu 2020 strategy, and recalls that a report is to be presented in early 2017. we voted in favour of this report as there were fundamentally positive aspects to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i’m pleased with the way that this report turned out compared with the previous year. i applaud the rapporteur on her constructive approach throughout the process. this report has my support.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge specifically on the point of the special reports as i do not believe that they were a good use of taxpayers’ money; however, i did not vote against the court of auditors’ discharge as a whole, as taken later in proceedings.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge specifically on the point of the special reports, as i do not believe that they were a good use of taxpayers’ money. however, i did not vote against the court of auditors’ discharge as a whole, as taken later in the proceedings.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which gives an in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provides considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. – this report contained a number of justifiable criticisms of parliament’s president, martin schulz, using the european parliament’s facilities and staff for his campaign during the 2014 elections, an individual who has also meddled in domestic affairs, which is in dereliction of his role as president of the european parliament. the report also focused on a number of practical matters, one primary one of interest is the road map for a single seat for the european parliament instead of shifting to and from strasbourg-brussels every month. sinn féin voted in favour of this point as it would save millions from being pointlessly spent every month. the report also contains a number of recommendations for improving the rights of assistants. the amendments from our group, which we supported, also called for full transparency on general expenditure, with access for citizens, and greater provision for transparency in terms of mep-lobbyist interaction. there was also an roll-call vote on multilingualism and the importance of providing meps, in due time, with all the documents necessary to conduct their work properly in committees, delegations and plenary sessions in any eu official language. in the light of sinn féin’s position on ending the derogation and promoting the irish language, we supported this. we voted in favour of the resolution granting discharge and the closure of accounts to the ep for the 2014 financial year.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area. i note that the european parliament once again voted to keep a single seat and to remove the strasbourg sitting. naturally, these votes have no actual effect: the parliament is indeed so toothless that it does not even have the power to decide where it sits. frankly, this is a good metaphor for the european union itself. i am astonished that some members could vote on the report to defend the use of eur 56 million on the house of history. i naturally voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area. i note that the european parliament once again voted to keep a single seat and to remove the strasbourg sitting. naturally, these votes have no actual effect: the parliament is indeed so toothless that it does not even have the power to decide where it sits. frankly, this is a good metaphor for the european union itself. i am astonished that some members could vote to defend the use of eur 56 million on the house of history. i naturally voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge report. this year it mainly focused on the novel idea of the spitzenkandidaten campaigns and the differentiation made between the ep president’s mandate and the s&d candidate’s mandate, which i believe does need further inspection and assessment as to what utility there may be in it. on the general expenditure allowance (gea), besides a reiteration from the report last year, the call in the amendments adopted for more transparency and precision in the list of expenses which may be defrayed from the gea is something i can support. i was particularly happy to see the adoption of amendments calling for a single seat for the european parliament – an issue that needs to be put to bed sooner rather than later.
in writing. – i supported the postponement of this discharge as the council continues to refuse to cooperate with the european parliament in the discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a decision to postpone discharge of this aspect of the 2014 budget. the text of the resolution is highly critical of the council over its lack of transparency and notes that it has failed to comply with the discharge procedure. a strong message needs to be spent that taxpayers’ money cannot be misspent, and must be spent in an accountable manner. the fact that this is not happening merely adds fuel to the fire for those of us who believe that the united kingdom would be better off outside the european union.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a decision to postpone discharge of this aspect of the 2014 budget. the text of the resolution is highly critical of the council over its lack of transparency and notes that it has failed to comply with the discharge procedure. a strong message needs to be spent that taxpayers’ money cannot be misspent, and must be spent in an accountable manner. the fact that this is not happening merely adds fuel to the fire for those of us who believe that the united kingdom would be better off outside the european union.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the committee’s decision to postpone the discharge. i note that the council sees itself on the same level as the two arms of the eu budgetary authority and as such has failed to provide relevant information required for the discharge process. i urge the council and the parliament to negotiate an agreement on this issue.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ this plenary session was very much dominated by having to pass these very important discharge reports. from my reading of article 319 tfeu, which is shared by most of my socialist colleagues, it is the job of parliament to give discharge, whereas the council’s role is to give a recommendation as to whether to grant the discharge. overall, however, i can support this discharge.
in writing. – this concerned the court of justice. i voted in favour of granting discharge and in favour of the resolution as there were no reasons justifying an alternative vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i wish to grant the court of justice its discharge and recognise the delay and importance of the need for the court to be given discharge for the financial year 2014.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge. this discharge procedure is not problematic and there are no irregularities of importance to highlight, despite the room for improvement in how the court works. there are no reasons to be against the grant of discharge and the approval of the accounts.
in writing. ‒ whilst there are many parts of the european union that completely fail to function, the court of auditors is generally competent in highlighting the errors, waste, mismanagement and fraud which often underpin the european union budget. whilst we in ukip cannot vote in favour of such a report (and indeed, the report abstains from criticism of the european union), it would be wrong for us to vote against the one part of the european union establishment which is prepared to make appropriate criticism of the european union budget. an abstention therefore appears to be appropriate on both the discharge and the report.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ whilst there are many parts of the european union that completely fail to function, the court of auditors is generally competent in highlighting the errors, waste, mismanagement and fraud which often underpin the european union budget. whilst we in ukip cannot vote in favour of such a report (and indeed, the report abstains from criticism of the european union), it would be wrong for us to vote against the one part of the european union establishment which is prepared to make appropriate criticism of the european union budget. an abstention therefore appears to be appropriate on both the discharge and the report.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report for the european court of auditors. it is a necessary and important procedure which i am happy to be facilitating.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in relation to the allocation for the european economic and social committee. it is a necessary and important procedure which i am happy to be facilitating.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in relation to the allocation for the committee of the regions. its work is very important for the representation of regional interests in the eu. furthermore, this vote is a necessary and important procedure which i am happy to be facilitating.
in writing. – i abstained on this report as there have only been limited improvements in relation to the issues that were raised in last year’s discharge procedure (problems with procurements, a large number of errors in transactions etc.) therefore, i did not feel that i could vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in relation to the allocation for the european external action service. its work is very important for the external representation and foreign policy goals of the union, and i do not wish to undermine its activity in any way. this vote is a necessary and important procedure which i am happy to be facilitating.
in writing. ‒ whilst there are many parts of the european union that completely fail to function, the ombudsman does in particular provide some assistance to citizens. whilst we in ukip cannot vote in favour of such a report (and indeed, the report abstains from criticism of the european union), it would be wrong for us to vote against the one part of the european union establishment which is prepared to make appropriate criticism of the european union budget. an abstention therefore appears to be appropriate on both the discharge and the report. i note that the european parliament once again voted to keep a single seat and to remove the strasbourg sitting. naturally, these votes have no actual effect: the parliament is indeed so toothless that it does not even have the power to decide where it sits.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ whilst there are many parts of the european union that completely fail to function, the ombudsman does in particular provide some assistance to citizens. whilst we in ukip cannot vote in favour of such a report (and indeed, the report abstains from criticism of the european union), it would be wrong for us to vote against the one part of the european union establishment which is prepared to make appropriate criticism of the european union budget. an abstention therefore appears to be appropriate on both the discharge and the report. i note that the european parliament once again voted to keep a single seat and to remove the strasbourg sitting. naturally, these votes have no actual effect: the parliament is indeed so toothless that it does not even have the power to decide where it sits.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in relation to the allocation to the european ombudsman. the work of the european ombudsman is incredibly vital for protecting citizens’ rights and places much-needed checks on the institutions of the eu. furthermore, this vote is a necessary and important procedure and i am happy to be facilitating its passage.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman plays a key role in holding the eu to account before its citizens, and allowing citizens to question the union’s activities. guaranteeing fundamental and human rights, as well as good governance, in a way that ensures taking up citizens’ concerns makes the eu more democratic, and improves the quality of democracy in all eu member states, including the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money and therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally, many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement, which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted abstained on the grounds that although i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the manner in which this is done, the cause is clearly worthwhile and there are no obvious points of contention within the discharge report.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this very important procedure and its much needed passage through the european parliament. the work of the european data protection supervisor is important for the functioning and credibility of the european union as an open and democratic institution.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge, which was concerned performance, financial management and control of eu agencies. there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are of vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank my colleague, comrade and countryman, derek vaughan, for his work on these reports. the 32 decentralised agencies of the european union are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of the european union’s policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. i support the agencies in their work, it is a clear benefit to the citizens of the west midlands and the performance of the agencies is improving year on year. it is important therefore that i voted in favour of this discharge procedure and allow the agencies to continue their work with limited undermining.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge, which was concerned with the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ as i have said previously, the performance of the eu’s agencies are improving year on year and i want to support the work of the agencies in their many areas of work. the agency for cooperation of energy regulators provides a great service for the people of the west midlands and this is why i voted in favour!
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge, which was concerned with the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec office). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ derek has done a lot of good work in these reports and it is only right that he is credited as such for his work. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. the office of the body of european regulator for electronic communications is a good example of an agency of the eu doing exactly this. for my constituents in the west midlands, the agencies play a key role, albeit relatively unnoticed, in the lives of thousands and thousands of people across my constituency.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ as one of 32 decentralised agencies of the european union, the translation centre for the bodies of the eu has an incredibly vital role in making the eu as open and transparent as is possible to all eu citizens. this vote is a small token of my support of the work of the agencies, whose performance is consistently improving every year.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for the development of vocational training, as one of the decentralised agencies of the eu, has been playing a vital role in delivering positive results and serves as a good example of what the eu means to the west midlands and the uk’s continued membership. its performance is improving every year, like every other agency of the eu, and i am happy to support the discharge of the financing for this agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european police college (cepol). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the eu agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ cepol is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european aviation safety agency (easa)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area. i further note that the expenditure of this agency has increased with no real benefit.
in writing. – ukip voted against this because the expenditure of this agency has increased and yet has shown no real benefit.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the expenditure of this agency has increased and yet has shown no real benefit.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the expenditure of this agency has increased and yet has shown no real benefit.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the expenditure of this agency has increased and yet has shown no real benefit.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against this because the expenditure of this agency has increased and yet has shown no real benefit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the expenditure of this agency has increased and yet has shown no real benefit.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ the easa is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge. there are no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the easo is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results, and this agency’s activities could not be more vital at this time, given the largest influx of migrants into europe since world war two. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european asylum support office (easo). my party, sinn féin, has been continuously emphasising the urgency of the refugee situation and has called on the eu to act promptly in order to provide the necessary resources required in order to deal with this unprecedented humanitarian crisis. moreover, there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the eba is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results, and the eba is important in today’s climate and aids in the stabilisation and growth of europe’s economy. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, its performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the grounds that although i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the manner in which this is done, the cause is clearly worthwhile and there are no obvious points of contention within the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ the ecdc is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it is right that it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european chemicals agency (echa). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the echa is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european environment agency (eea). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ as one of the biggest positive effects that the eu has had on the world, any promotion and execution of the eu’s environmental policies is vital. in this way, the eea is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european fisheries control agency (efca). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the efca is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european food safety authority. i voted against this report because, despite improvement of its policies on employing people with conflicts of interest, efsa recently appointed the current director of regulation, science and sustainability at the uk industry's trade federation (the food and drink federation), as their director of communications. they have since refused to disclose this person's declaration of interests. until efsa regains some credibility on this matter, i did not believe it appropriate to grant discharge. therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area. i abstained on amendment 5 because of the lack of solutions proposed.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the efsa is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european institute for gender equality (eige). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean, our planes and flights safer and more secure; and ensuring gender equality. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the eige is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. gender inequality remains an issue in the 21st century and we must do everything in our power to bring an end to discrimination based on gender. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. ‒ the european institute for gender equality has become the foremost source on gender mainstreaming and gender equality policy across europe. as gender equality is one of the core values of the european union, it is vital to provide eige with sufficient funds to maintain and expand its work. policy-making on gender equality begins with having gender-sensitive data to demonstrate where those inequalities are, and in that respect eige’s work is indispensable.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the eiopa is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ this agency has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european medicines agency (ema). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the ema has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ this agency has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european maritime safety agency (emsa). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean our planes and flights safer and more secure, or working to ensure safety at sea. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ despite not having a coast, the west midlands can still benefit from well looked-after maritime spaces in terms of our diet and the general environment. my constituency is one where many people move around, and keeping the waterways and seas clean is a must, not just for the pleasure of holidaying west midlanders, but also for the general environmental quality of our waters for fishing, sport and ecosystems. the emsa is vital to this end and been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against this because there is a necessity for an improvement in the prevention of and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ this agency has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because there is a necessity for an improvement in the prevention of and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because there is a necessity for an improvement in the prevention of and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because there is a necessity for an improvement in the prevention of and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ on topic for this plenary session, this agency, the european railway agency, has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european securities and markets authority (esma)my party have a number of concerns with the composition of this body and we have critical concerns about the huge democratic deficit which defines these regulatory bodies. there is a huge democratic deficit running through these bodies and moreover, a number of legal concerns have been voiced.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because there is a necessity for an improvement in the prevention of and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ this agency has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year it and receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european training foundation (etf). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ training is vital in filling the skills gap in my region, and this agency, the european training foundation, has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results in this context. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ this agency has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ for me health and safety is a matter of life and death; it is not something that exists to slow down economic growth. the eu-osha has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu's policies' goals and results on safety and health at work. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and has shown that it will, where feasible, support services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving every year and receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the euratom supply agency (esa). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area. seriously - do we need this many quangos on top of all the ones we already have?
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the esa has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu are vitally important in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ eurofound has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and it has shown that it will, where feasible, support other services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens, performance is improving every year and it receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european union's judicial cooperation unit (eurojust)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ this agency has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policies’ goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and, where feasible, support services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving every year and receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european police office (europol). my party have a number of critical concerns with europol and the manner in which it operates. however, as there were no specific irregularities arising explicit to this report, i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area. this is not and should not be a concern of a trading union.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ europol has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policies’ goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and, where feasible, support services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving every year and receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area. i think we should all have a right, not to have our hard earned taxes wasted on such stupid quangos.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i’ve had great experiences with the fra and i believe that it has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policies’ goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and, where feasible, support services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving every year and receives my support.
in writing. ‒ i would like to commend the important work that the fra do to research and promote the human and civil rights of european citizens. the eu has advanced respect for human rights in our democracies, and has established new ways to uphold them. this is part of the eu civil society infrastructure that provides protection to uk citizens, and another good reason to vote to stay in the eu.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union also known as frontex. my party have a number of concerns with frontex. the body is meant to assist with of border management within europe but have been an unmitigated disaster. only last year, they had their budget increased by 54% but human disasters continue to occur. this shows that the money is there to tackle the problem but it’s the way in which the problem is being tackled that is not effective enough. however, as there were no specific irregularities arising explicit to this report, i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area. because they are doing such a good job aren’t they!
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ this agency has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policies’ goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and, where feasible, support services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving every year and receives my support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european gnss agency (gsa). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to citizens across the eu and i voted in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge. the 32 decentralised agencies of the eu have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ this agency has been an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policies’ goals and results. there is now good progress being made in terms of this agency sharing best practice with other agencies and, where feasible, support services. this agency has proven that it is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving every year and receives my support.
in writing. – the discharge procedure is the european parliament’s final approval of how a particular european institution’s budget for a specific year has been implemented. the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. in the case of the artemis technology research undertaking, financial rules were not amended to comply with the latest financial regulations applicable to ppps. therefore i voted to postpone the discharge decision until september and in favour of the resolution to this effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ artemis joint undertaking brings together industry and research bodies in public and private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. i’m supporting this discharge for these reasons and i look forward to seeing what comes out of this one in particular.
in writing. – the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising and pooling european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of european research, science and technology. on the clean sky joint undertaking, while the annual accounts were found to accurately respect the financial position and transactions, there was a lack of information regarding the ex-post audits. for these reasons i voted in favour of granting the discharge, but abstained on the closure of accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ are we serious? clean sky joint undertaking! somebody give us the strength. if we do not vote to leave the eu on 23 of june – expect more of this absolute tripe. i voted against on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of any expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the joint undertaking given that significant progress and improvements have been made to the situation in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky joint undertaking brings together industry and research bodies in public and private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. i’m supporting this discharge for these reasons and i look forward to seeing what comes out of this one.
in writing. – the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising and pooling european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. this ju was aimed at implementing the joint technology initiative on ‘electronic components and systems for european leadership’. although the accounts present material aspects and the financial position fairly, there was an absence of information regarding in-kind and cash contribution. therefore i voted in favour of the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the joint undertaking given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ like the clean sky joint undertaking and artemis joint undertaking, the ecsel joint undertaking brings together industry and research bodies in public and private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. i’m supporting this discharge for these reasons and i look forward to seeing what comes out of this one.
in writing. – this ju was set up for the development of nano-electronics across different areas. while the accounts fairly represent its financial position, different methodologies used by the national funding authorities (nfas) mean that there is a lack of information on certain aspects. for this reason i voted to postpone the discharge procedure pending more precise information.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. – the eniac undertaking brings together industry and research bodies in public and private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. i’m supporting this discharge for these reasons and i look forward to seeing what comes out of this one.
in writing. – this ju is aimed at facilitating efforts towards deployment of fuel cells and hydrogen technologies. again, there was a lack of information regarding ex-post audits and in-kind and cash contributions. therefore i voted in favour of granting the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of the parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the joint undertaking given that significant progress and improvements have been made to the situation in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ this joint undertaking brings together industry and research bodies in public and private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. i am supporting this discharge for these reasons and i look forward to seeing what comes out of this one.
in writing. – this ju is aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process for the production of safer innovative medicines. while the accounts gave a fair representation of the ju’s financial position, the ex-ante control performed by the joint undertaking’s scientific project officers (spo) did not clearly identify and comment upon the status of the project and its deliverables; and payment was made without an official listing of deliverables accepted by the spo and without any reference to the assessment of deliverables by the spo. therefore i voted in favour of discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, although it is a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of parliament to verify that the eu budget has been spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending tax payers money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports calls for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the joint undertaking given that significant progress and improvements have been made in terms of the recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking brings together industry and research bodies in public and private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. i’m supporting this discharge for these reasons and i look forward to seeing what comes out of this one in particular, as its work has much life-changing potential for my constituents.
in writing. – this joint undertaking concerns cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion. in this case, there were clear and enormous overruns, excessive delays and very poor procedures regarding organisation. in addition, discussions on viability, the possibility of spread and distribution of this kind of energy, and the cost in comparison with other sustainable and renewable energy sources, were not present. for these reasons i voted to postpone the grant of the discharge and abstained on the approval of the accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to postpone discharge of this aspect of the 2014 budget. a strong message needs to be sent that taxpayers’ money cannot be misspent, and must be spent in an accountable manner. the fact that this is not happening merely adds fuel to the fire for those of us who believe that the united kingdom would be better off outside the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, though it is a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money, therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedure is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-learn energy and so on. i support the work of this undertaking and hope it is fruitful.
in writing. – this ju was set up to run the single european sky air traffic management research programme aimed at modernising air traffic management. as there was a lack of information regarding ex-post audits, and limited information regarding in-kind/cash contributions, i voted to grant the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge on this report today because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge on the grounds that i disapprove of the european union, and consequently i disapprove of the expenditure in this area.
in writing. – ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the joint undertaking given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the discharge votes for multiple reasons. primarily we are against the eu spending taxpayers’ money therefore we do not consent to this money being spent. second of all, the lack of transparency in these procedures is of real concern to us. finally many of these discharge reports call for a motion for resolution which requires further eu engagement which we are principally against.
in writing. ‒ the sesar undertaking brings together industry and research bodies in public and private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. i am supporting this discharge for these reasons and i look forward to seeing what comes out of this one.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which provided a critical view especially on the infrastructure projects. only this week i have called on the irish government to implement funding they have drawn down from the european investment bank for the building of social housing in ireland. in ireland, our homeless crisis has reached epidemic status and we urgently need the spiralling housing crisis to be addressed as a matter of priority. however, let me be clear that my party retains grave concerns about how the eib operates in practice. there is a clear democratic deficit which permeates the eib and it is clear that the eib prioritises large corporations from the north of europe, acting as a client-driven bank rather than serving its developing objectives. sinn féin will continue to ensure that projects which are supported by the eib do not contribute to unsustainable development, by fuelling environmental destruction, climate change and depletion of natural resources. infrastructure and energy projects, which represent an important part of the eib portfolio, have huge potential to cause environmental and social damage. my party will continue to actively call for reform on matters such as these.
in writing. ‒ this is an own-initiative report on the work of the european investment bank in 2014. it is clear that the european investment bank is politically motivated in various areas; for example, the british broadcasting corporation has received finance from the eib in the past. the report fails to take the opportunity to note the expectation on eib-funded projects to support the european union, yet calls for an expansion of the same projects. given that it spectacularly misses the point and fails to find fault where fault is necessary, a vote against the final report was indicated.
in writing. ‒ this is an own-initiative report on the work of the european investment bank in 2014. it is clear that the european investment bank is politically motivated in various areas; for example, the british broadcasting corporation has received finance from the eib in the past. the report fails to take the opportunity to note the expectation on eib-funded projects to support the european union, yet calls for an expansion of the same projects. given that it spectacularly misses the point and fails to find fault where fault is necessary, a vote against the final report was indicated.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report whose greatest achievement was to bring the groups together and ensure that the european investment bank – the eib – can provide consistent and complementary support with its investment programmes of the european structural and investment funds and other public funds. the report calls on the eib to implement and further develop the efsi in close cooperation with the council. i am happy that this report seeks to prioritise the promotion of youth employment, innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises, enhance environmental sustainability and action on climate change, to name just a few.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this joint resolution which is seeking to condemn the breaches of international humanitarian law which are being carried out globally. it must not be forgotten that, during the so-called operation protection edge in gaza in 2014, the israeli military shelled an intensive care unit of a palestinian hospital. this is not the first hospital that israel has destroyed, but the shelling of an intensive care unit is particularly reprehensible as it is attacking the most vulnerable in our society. israel and others have acted and are acting with impunity for these flagrant breaches of international humanitarian law and violations of the human rights of millions of civilians worldwide. there needs to be a strong voice coming from the irish government condemning the ongoing breaches of international humanitarian law. without a strong voice from the international community to join in a loud condemnation of these countries belligerent crimes against humanity and gross violations of international law, including article 33 of the fourth geneva convention prohibiting collective punishment and article 48 forbidding military actions against civilian populations and infrastructure, then these aggressors will of course, will continue to act with impunity.
in writing. ‒ i am devastated by the kind of attacks described in the report. however, i cannot support all aspects of the report (it notably calls for common eu positions on matters of national sovereignty) and therefore i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as it calls on the united nations security council to use all available tools, such as the use of targeted measures and judicial mechanisms, to improve respect for international law norms. these provide for the protection of humanitarian workers and bringing all those responsible for such acts to justice. the resolution also stresses the importance of improving security for aid workers and urges the eu member states to call on the un and the un security council to guarantee the protection of both local and international humanitarian workers.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report which highlights this major issue of attacks on humanitarian workers and hospitals. such actions have become ‘common currency’ and have reached alarming levels. in this context, it is great to see that the committee on foreign affairs and its subcommittee on human rights have asked the high representative and the council to respond to how the relevant council bodies have implemented the eu guidelines on promoting compliance with international humanitarian law with regard to the conflicts in syria, the yemen, afghanistan and other recent/current armed conflicts across the world.
in writing. – of course we are all deeply opposed to attacks on hospitals, schools and similar humanitarian targets. however the text of the resolution contains political ingredients which go beyond this. the armed forces of the uk, the us and our allies go to enormous lengths to avoid civilian casualties and sometimes this involves increasing the risk to our own armed forces. we know that terrible accidents sometimes happen and we are usually quick to acknowledge them when they do. however, there should be greater recognition of the fact that insurgent and terrorist groups deliberately position weapons in places such as hospitals and schools either in the hope that this will avoid attack or that an attack takes places and results in civilian casualties which serve the propaganda purposes of the insurgents. i do not think that it is appropriate for the eu to have any sort of control over operational decisions that may be taken by our armed forces. i reject the implied criticisms of the actions of some of our closest allies when our attention should instead be focused on those who represent a real threat to our national and international security. for all these reasons i abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ urban warfare and the damage to civilian infrastructure, life and limb has become an all too common part of the international landscape. with attacks on schools and hospitals that have occurred, either intentionally or not, in afghanistan, syria and yemen in recent years, indeed in syria even this week, this is a clear and present danger to civilian populations in war zones. it is important that states bear in mind their responsibilities under international humanitarian law. these are not misdemeanours, but a very serious breach of international law. it is also pertinent to remind the international community that aid must be provided to displaced persons without prejudice or favour. they should also reaffirm the centrality of human rights to international law and the protection that it offers at the upcoming world humanitarian summit. it is also true, however, that the use of schools and hospitals by parties in armed conflicts have turned them into potential targets and it is important that we recognise that this is also a breach of international humanitarian law. therefore i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on this topic.
in writing. ‒ we are currently seeing a worrying rise of heinous and brutal attacks on civilians in conflict zones around the world, with severe war crimes, crimes against humanity, and even genocide, being perpetrated with near impunity. the european union must lead the way for the international community to reinforce the international system of humanitarian law and its governance, and must find more effective ways to exert pressure on international actors and regimes to prevent these crimes. the circumstances and rights of those who are most vulnerable, particularly children, must be at the heart of any such approach. the usa’s increasing use of drone strikes is deeply worrying. such deployment is opaque, unaccountable, and under-reported. civilians are often killed or injured in situations that are inexplicable, either to the victims or to the world at large. such practices are a step backwards in international humanitarian law governance, and a worrying development given the potential risks of emerging military technologies. the eu must push its allies to establish a clear international legal mechanism to rein in and clearly delineate clear red lines around drone warfare and equivalent deadly innovations.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with access to documents. my colleague matt carthy recently attended the ttip reading room where he had to sign a confidentiality agreement swearing never to divulge the information, where his phone was taken from him and where he was accompanied into the room by an official, who remained in the reading room for the duration. not to have access to information or limited access to such flies in the face of democracy and is an insult to the citizens who elect meps to represent them in europe. moreover, the report criticised lack of clarity in international dealings and the lack of transparency of ecb, eib and eu institutions. my party have been very vocal on the fact that the effectiveness of eu law is systematically undermined by the eu routinely ignoring every legal and constitutional obstacle in its way in order to increase it ssupranational power. this lack of transparency, democracy and accountability has led to a widespread lack of trust and confidence in the aims and objectives of the european union. therefore, as the report progressively tackled these matters, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ferrara report because it seeks to increase democracy, transparency and accountability. if the european union were all of these things, it would be a far less bad organisation than it currently is.
in writing. – ukip meps voted in favour of this non-legislative report which highlights the undemocratic nature of the european institutions. ukip firmly agrees with the overall theme that the european institutions should be more transparent; we believe that this could aid in improving accountability and democracy within the european union. likewise, we very much believe in engaging with citizens and have long campaigned for direct democracy, which we believe this report progresses towards. lastly, we also strongly agree with parts of this report that call for parliament to be consulted by the commission at every stage of negotiations on international agreements. we do not believe that the commission should be negotiating international agreements without parliament and citizens being able to scrutinise the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted in favour of this non-legislative report which highlights the undemocratic nature of the european institutions. ukip firmly agrees with the overall theme that the european institutions should be more transparent; we believe that this could aid in improving accountability and democracy within the european union. likewise, we very much believe in engaging with citizens and have long campaigned for direct democracy, which we believe this report progresses towards. lastly, we also strongly agree with parts of this report that call for parliament to be consulted by the commission at every stage of negotiations on international agreements. we do not believe that the commission should be negotiating international agreements without parliament and citizens being able to scrutinise the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted in favour of this non-legislative report which highlights the undemocratic nature of the european institutions. ukip firmly agrees with the overall theme that the european institutions should be more transparent; we believe that this could aid in improving accountability and democracy within the european union. likewise, we very much believe in engaging with citizens and have long campaigned for direct democracy, which we believe this report progresses towards. lastly, we also strongly agree with parts of this report that call for parliament to be consulted by the commission at every stage of negotiations on international agreements. we do not believe that the commission should be negotiating international agreements without parliament and citizens being able to scrutinise the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted in favour of this non-legislative report which highlights the undemocratic nature of the european institutions. ukip firmly agrees with the overall theme that the european institutions should be more transparent; we believe that this could aid in improving accountability and democracy within the european union. likewise, we very much believe in engaging with citizens and have long campaigned for direct democracy, which we believe this report progresses towards. lastly, we also strongly agree with parts of this report that call for parliament to be consulted by the commission at every stage of negotiations on international agreements. we do not believe that the commission should be negotiating international agreements without parliament and citizens being able to scrutinise the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ferrara report because it seeks to increase democracy, transparency and accountability. if the european union were all of these things, it would be a far less bad organisation than it is. whilst there is much to commend in this report, the fact of the matter is that i cannot vote for a report which seeks to harmonise decisions across the european union on a matter which should be for nation states to determine. indeed, if such a measure were before the united kingdom parliament i might well support it, at least for the most part. but to take such decisions at eu level is not the appropriate level; subsidiarity should dictate that decisions are taken at the closest possible level to the citizen rather than at the remotest possible level. i oppose calls for eu legislation, the demeaning of women through gender quotas, calls for eu funding and gender mainstreaming in schools. whatever good is suggested in this report, i had no option but to vote against a report containing all of these things.
in writing. – ukip meps voted in favour of this non-legislative report which highlights the undemocratic nature of the european institutions. ukip firmly agrees with the overall theme that the european institutions should be more transparent; we believe that this could aid in improving accountability and democracy within the european union. likewise, we very much believe in engaging with citizens and have long campaigned for direct democracy, which we believe this report progresses towards. lastly, we also strongly agree with parts of this report that call for parliament to be consulted by the commission at every stage of negotiations on international agreements. we do not believe that the commission should be negotiating international agreements without parliament and citizens being able to scrutinise the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted in favour of this non-legislative report which highlights the undemocratic nature of the european institutions. ukip firmly agrees with the overall theme that the european institutions should be more transparent; we believe that this could aid in improving accountability and democracy within the european union. likewise, we very much believe in engaging with citizens and have long campaigned for direct democracy, which we believe this report progresses towards. lastly, we also strongly agree with parts of this report that call for parliament to be consulted by the commission at every stage of negotiations on international agreements. we do not believe that the commission should be negotiating international agreements without parliament and citizens being able to scrutinise the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour here because i believe that the council and the commission seriously need to engage with parliament to unblock the revision of european union law on access to documents.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which calls for legislative instruments to recognise the employment and social rights of domestic workers and carers who are very often undeclared and therefore lack job stability, paid leave and have very limited or non-existent employment rights. according to the international labour organization, 85% of domestic workers and carers are women and this report aims to ensure that there are no more second-class, low-paid, undeclared female workers in the eu. furthermore, in ireland migrant women are particularly vulnerable to exploitation by unscrupulous employers. a report last summer by the fundamental rights agency indicated that working in domestic households was identified as the major area for severe labour exploitation in ireland. it is very disconcerting that young, migrant women working as au pairs in ireland are still vulnerable to exploitation as there is no official recognition of au pairs in ireland. this report is an important step forward in recognising and protecting the rights of domestic workers and carers and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ whilst there is much to commend in this report, the fact of the matter is that i cannot vote for a report which seeks to harmonise decisions across the european union on a matter which should be for nation states to determine. indeed, if such a measure were before the united kingdom parliament i might well support it, at least for the most part. but to take such decisions at eu level is not the appropriate level; subsidiarity should dictate that decisions are taken at the closest possible level to the citizen rather than at the remotest possible level.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while ukip strongly supports the correct protections and rights for care workers, it should only be decided through our accountable national governments, not unelected eu institutions. ukip voted against because the report called for more legislation, harmonisation and definitions of care work at eu level.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while ukip strongly supports the correct protections and rights for care workers, it should only be decided through our accountable national governments, not unelected eu institutions. ukip voted against because the report called for more legislation, harmonisation and definitions of care work at eu level.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while ukip strongly supports the correct protections and rights for care workers, it should only be decided through our accountable national governments, not unelected eu institutions. ukip voted against because the report called for more legislation, harmonisation and definitions of care work at eu level.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while ukip strongly supports the correct protections and rights for care workers, it should only be decided through our accountable national governments, not unelected eu institutions. ukip voted against because the report called for more legislation, harmonisation and definitions of care work at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report – women domestic workers should be free from violence and protected by labour laws. in addition, women carers clearly needed to be given a status.
in writing. – 1.4 million people in the uk provide over 50 hours of unpaid care per week, 58% of carers are female and statistics indicate that 1/4 women aged 50-64 are carers. this report has highlighted the gap in availability in care provision; very often family members must be caregivers on an informal basis. the uk delegation in parliament is aware of these challenges; however we are mindful that this issue is not a competency of the eu and must be addressed by local and national governments. this report also highlights the problems around women working in domestic households. in recent years, abuse of domestic workers and the link with irregular migration has been emphasised. the uk home office has announced that they are planning to introduce an ‘immediate escape route’ giving the right to domestic workers to switch employers within their first six months in the country and the period that victims of abuse can stay will increase from six months to two years. while we are supportive of the aims of this report, we do believe that these issues are for national governments to address. for this reason the uk delegation abstained on this report.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while ukip strongly supports the correct protections and rights for care workers, it should only be decided through our accountable national governments, not unelected eu institutions. ukip voted against because the report called for more legislation, harmonisation and definitions of care work at eu level.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. while ukip strongly supports the correct protections and rights for care workers, it should only be decided through our accountable national governments, not unelected eu institutions. ukip voted against because the report called for more legislation, harmonisation and definitions of care work at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses that women domestic workers should be protected by labour laws and free from violence and that women carers should be granted a status. it is important that there is a gender dimension to this, as it is women who are disproportionately affected and are affected differently from how men are.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for the eu to interfere in the education system and national curricula of member states; it called for propaganda campaigns to be conducted by the commission; and called for gender quotas – specifically progress on the ‘women on boards’ directive. while ukip supports the development of the digital economy, we cannot support calls for more eu legislation. with regard to gender quotas you cannot fight discrimination with more discrimination – jobs should be based on merit, not gender. ukip voted against paragraph 66 as it called for new eu legislation that could interfere with criminal laws in the uk. ukip of course opposes all forms of violence and bullying, however, initiatives and laws to tackle this should solely be a member state competency, by our elected national government, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on domestic workers and care in the eu. it is vital that we work to regularise and professionalise this area. far too often the lack of recognition of qualifications, particularly in the areas of care for the elderly and vulnerable that require a specific skill set, means that people who are unqualified end up performing this role. it is also impossible and would be highly irresponsible to ignore the incredibly gendered nature of exploitation in this industry. far too often work in the care and domestic industry is automatically gendered as ‘women’s work’. furthermore there is a clear international dimension to this with migrant women often being brought over specifically or ending up serving in the domestic and care industry; both of these factors contribute to the lack of regulation/regularisation in this sector and this in turn leads to exploitation of employees and a substandard level of care. this report calls on the commission and members states to act to regularise this industry and this is a call that i was happy to back.
in writing. ‒ women’s care work, both formal and informal, is sadly still a source of inequality. austerity policies and the resulting poverty has only exacerbated this problem, as more services have been cut, more people are in need of care, and many families and dependants fall back on traditional gender roles. in the meantime, domestic workers, who are mostly migrant women, are open to abuse by employers. the european union can take action to protect professional carers and must work together with member state governments to reverse the damage that austerity has done to our public services.
in writing. ‒ i oppose calls for eu legislation, the demeaning of women through gender quotas, calls for eu funding and gender mainstreaming in schools. whatever good is suggested in this report, i had no option but to vote against a report containing all of these things.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for the eu to interfere in the education system and national curricula of member states; it called for propaganda campaigns to be conducted by the commission; and called for gender quotas – specifically progress on the ‘women on boards’ directive. while ukip supports the development of the digital economy, we cannot support calls for more eu legislation. with regard to gender quotas you cannot fight discrimination with more discrimination – jobs should be based on merit, not gender. ukip voted against paragraph 66 as it called for new eu legislation that could interfere with criminal laws in the uk. ukip of course opposes all forms of violence and bullying, however, initiatives and laws to tackle this should solely be a member state competency, by our elected national government, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for the eu to interfere in the education system and national curricula of member states; it called for propaganda campaigns to be conducted by the commission; and called for gender quotas – specifically progress on the ‘women on boards’ directive. while ukip supports the development of the digital economy, we cannot support calls for more eu legislation. with regard to gender quotas you cannot fight discrimination with more discrimination – jobs should be based on merit, not gender. ukip voted against paragraph 66 as it called for new eu legislation that could interfere with criminal laws in the uk. ukip of course opposes all forms of violence and bullying, however, initiatives and laws to tackle this should solely be a member state competency, by our elected national government, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for the eu to interfere in the education system and national curricula of member states; it called for propaganda campaigns to be conducted by the commission; and called for gender quotas – specifically progress on the ‘women on boards’ directive. while ukip supports the development of the digital economy, we cannot support calls for more eu legislation. with regard to gender quotas you cannot fight discrimination with more discrimination – jobs should be based on merit, not gender. ukip voted against paragraph 66 as it called for new eu legislation that could interfere with criminal laws in the uk. ukip of course opposes all forms of violence and bullying, however, initiatives and laws to tackle this should solely be a member state competency, by our elected national government, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. – i and my ukip colleagues voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for the eu to interfere in the education system and national curricula of member states; it called for propaganda campaigns to be conducted by the commission; and called for gender quotas – specifically progress on the ‘women on boards’ directive. while ukip supports the development of the digital economy, we cannot support calls for more eu legislation. with regard to gender quotas you cannot fight discrimination with more discrimination – jobs should be based on merit, not gender. ukip voted against paragraph 66 as it called for new eu legislation that could interfere with criminal laws in the uk. ukip of course opposes all forms of violence and bullying, however, initiatives and laws to tackle this should solely be a member state competency, by our elected national government, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i completely oppose all this discrimination whether it be positive or negative. gender mainstreaming in education, gender quotas, calls for the creation of more eu legislation, and calls for more funding – of course i voted against!
in writing. ‒ it is important that we address the lack of women working in the it sector (other than in administration) at an early age. having spoken to some female entrepreneurs in the digital sector who had left for the us because of the greater opportunities there, it is vital that we in the eu get our house in order and recognise the key role that digital can play in empowering women. i commend the efforts of the rapporteur and voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – in the uk, women make up under 30% of the ict workforce, which breaks down to around 20% of computing graduates and under 10% of app developers. a recent study conducted by the house of lords suggests that the lack of women in ict is drastically holding back the uk from fulfilling its economic potential and that increasing the number of women working in it could generate an extra gbp 2.6 billion for the uk each year. the uk delegation in parliament therefore acknowledges that more needs to be done to encourage and include women in ict careers and we welcome the aims of the reintke report. the report does however touch on several areas of concern for the uk delegation: paragraphs which call for progress to be made on the proposed ‘women on boards’ directive; favourable credit conditions for companies in which at least 40% of the workforce are male; references to safeguarding workers’ fundamental rights, collective bargaining and tax and benefits systems. we believe these issues are matters to be dealt with at national level and not at european level. for this reason the uk delegation abstained on the reinkte report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report called for the eu to interfere in the education system and national curricula of member states; it called for propaganda campaigns to be conducted by the commission; and called for gender quotas – specifically progress on the ‘women on boards’ directive. while ukip supports the development of the digital economy, we cannot support calls for more eu legislation. with regard to gender quotas you cannot fight discrimination with more discrimination – jobs should be based on merit, not gender. ukip voted against paragraph 66 as it called for new eu legislation that could interfere with criminal laws in the uk. ukip of course opposes all forms of violence and bullying, however, initiatives and laws to tackle this should solely be a member state competency, by our elected national government, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which emphasises the potential that the information society, ict and the internet have to promote women’s empowerment. the digital age provides for the empowerment of women in the labour market, in political and societal participation and has the potential to contribute to more gender equality. however, it also bears risks, especially for women, in terms of precarious work, violence against women and sexual exploitation. there are important legal frameworks required therefore for appropriate monitoring.
in writing. ‒ as the european union moves to build the digital single market, which aims to turn europe into a global leader in innovation, we need to empower more women and girls to get involved with ict. this report lays out a detailed plan to on how to do that. the virtual world of the web is a reflection of our own society, and promoting gender equality in one sphere advances it in the other. we need early education programmes to erase gender stereotypes, and enable young girls to develop their talents as programmers, coders, and innovators. we need young women to see role models in the industry and progress to higher education in ict. we need young women professional networks and ict mentoring and talent development. all these are projects that the european union can support, along with sharing best practice across europe, together with local community organisations, universities and businesses. i hope to see the commission and member states follow-up these recommendations with action.
mr president, i wanted to concentrate on the new tools available for cohesion policy. the 2014 to 2020 cohesion policy puts greater emphasis on a bottom-up approach and that is why we put in place new tools such as community-led local development and integrated territorial investments. all these new tools are very much welcome but i am not sure how widely they are being used in member states and regions. indeed, when you read the report, it does say that there seems to be a lack of trust between the different levels of government and i believe this is particularly the case between central government and local and regional government. i believe that central government in many cases believes that local and regional government do not have the capacity to plan and deliver programmes. also, of course, member states in many cases put in place many additional burdens, the so-called gold-plating. therefore i believe it would be useful if the commission could monitor the use of these new tools to see how far they have been used currently but also to learn lessons for cohesion policy post—2020.
mr president, i rise to discuss the topic of integrated territorial investment. as the name suggests, it is yet another part of the eu strategy to erode away national and local identities. as with many eu policies, this is disguised as having an economic purpose, when in reality it is about political control. jean monnet himself openly bragged about how political federalist policies could be disguised in this way – and that is the exact word he used, epitomising the lies and deceit that so characterised the eu and its supporters. this report brags about how cost—effective this is, but the eu does not have a good track record when it comes to fiscal efficiency. we are in strasbourg, the bi-location of the parliament, being one of the many ways in which the eu shamelessly wastes money. but this is not just about money: this is about propaganda. as a referendum approaches in my country, the eu claims it gives us lots of money. it even forces recipients to erect propaganda signs thanking the eu for giving us money, despite the fact that it was ours in the first place. there are some parts of the uk where these ghastly propaganda posters seem to be ever present. the public in my country have seen through this, and the citizens of other eu countries will see through it soon enough. in britain, our own social cohesion is at risk as uncontrolled migration from the eu leads to greater pressure on housing, schools and rationing of healthcare. luckily, in the uk, we have an opportunity to rectify this by voting to leave the eu in the referendum on 23 june.
blue-card question.– i just have a quick question. would you agree with my characterisation that cohesion policy, realistically, is the taking of money in tax, from taxpayers in net contributor countries like the uk, to be spent across europe to improve governance and cohesion for a closer eu project in years to come? would you agree with that characterisation of exactly what this is about?
mr president, it is a pleasure to be speaking here on a monday night and to have a minute and a half to discuss cohesion policy. i find it interesting that an mep from the west midlands of the united kingdom is here talking about mountainous regions. we do not have very many mountains in my part of the uk, which is wolverhampton and dudley. we have a few canals, but we do not have mountains. what we do have is mountains of debt; what we do have are peaks of demand for people to go to doctors’ surgeries; and what we do have are valleys of despair of people in our region who cannot get into work, who cannot get to see a doctor and who cannot get their kids into the right school. we have all of these things, and we can thank the eu and its cohesion policy for much of it, because the reasons why we cannot have these things is because our industry has been destroyed – we were the home of the industrial revolution – and we are subjected to mass, uncontrolled immigration into our area, which means we do not have the places for people to go into the schools or the houses or the hospitals. so really, the only mountain that the people in the west midlands really want to talk about is ‘mount freedom’. i want them to ascend to the pinnacle of ‘mount freedom’ on our referendum day and have a look at the view, when we can look at all of you across the channel and say ‘hi guys, the view is lovely, but we love it at the top, and we love it being free.’ (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– this is the injustice. we are constantly hearing in this place that the uk is so wealthy. yes, take the money from the uk and redistribute it as all socialists wish to do. however, the area of the uk that elected myself and my colleague here, james carver, from the west midlands as well, we have some of the poorest people across europe in our area. these people cannot afford the things that others may take for granted. they cannot get work, and when you take the money that could be spent on their schools, their hospitals, and you redistribute it, as you see fit, you do a disservice to some of the poorest people in the whole of europe and it is a shame.
mr president, the uk recently experienced a very concrete example of the importance of eu assistance through regional funds because during december 2015 the uk was hit by the extra-tropical cyclone storm desmond, followed by storms eva and frank, causing severe flooding in the north of england and scotland well into january. extensive damage was caused to homes, communities and businesses. following intense pressure from the labour party, the uk government finally applied for eu solidarity funds in february 2016, on the eve of the deadline, and we are now waiting for the first payments to be made in order to support affected communities. i represent a beautiful, isolated, rural and mountainous area in the northwest of england. so i know first-hand the positive impact that the eu cohesion policy can have on sustainable economic, social and cultural development of the regions and i am very proud to say that the eu flag is proudly fluttering outside my office in workington town hall today. i do not need to repeat what my colleagues have already said, demonstrating the positive impact, but i would like to say that proper support for social and cultural cohesion policies should be more prevalent.
mr president, european regional aid and social funding make a difference. they bring people into the world of work, they help the vulnerable in our societies and they stop communities from being left behind. examples in my own constituency include helping older people in luton, the prince’s trust to help young people who have dropped out of education in chelmsford, and helping rural businesses to set up in the waveney valley. this is social europe. altogether, the east of england will receive gbp 250 million in the next five years – in norfolk and suffolk alone supporting 5 000 businesses and creating 2 000 jobs. those in the british referendum who dismiss this simply as our own money should recognise that these eu funds leverage additional match funding that would not otherwise be attracted, include transnational partnerships where we can build bonds and learn from each other, and foster genuine european-level innovation for the benefit of all. if we leave the eu and lose this funding, do eurosceptics really argue that a british government which has cut so much would give us any of that money back? already the east of england is collaborating with lower austria, south sweden, prague and helsinki on future plans for cohesion policy post-2020. tonight’s debate is about the future post-2020, and my own contribution seeks to argue that the united kingdom must be part of it: british regions are stronger in europe.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, another month, another waste of time, effort and resources coming to strasbourg. another ditched cameronian promise to the british people – and another fishing agreement! or rather, two: one new with liberia and one renewed with mauritania. this is another betrayal of ordinary people. these agreements are a form of euro-colonialism. they allow the eu to plunder the fish from other people’s waters, while salving their consciences. how much local fishing does not happen because europeans steal the fish? how many africans remain poor? how much of the eu conscience money actually goes to help ordinary people? there is an old joke – actually a proverb – which says: ‘give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.’ not with eu fisheries agreements, you do not! instead you take from him his living, his food, his livelihood and you line the pockets of the political class of the country concerned. and they tell us that we are the mad ones who want to leave the eu. i want scotland’s 200 mile limit back; brexit now!
mr president, last year i warned this parliament about the dangers to children who are being swept onto the shores of europe in the migrant crisis. i warned about the thousands of boys and girls who were disappearing, taken by traffickers across a europe without frontiers. now, the numbers of lost children have multiplied and interpol has warned in january this year that 10 000 children have vanished. 5000 have disappeared italy alone. one thousand are unaccounted for in sweden. europol’s chief of staff has said, ‘we just do not know where they are, what they are doing or who they are with’. angela merkel and other open border fanatics told the world that all could come. the sex traffickers – the men who supply the paedophiles – have accepted that invitation. this is a sacrifice of children for european ideology, and this parliament does nothing.
mr president, on 9 may, exactly 66 years ago, the schuman declaration laid out a vision for peace and reconciliation in europe, rising from the ashes of war and genocide. that vision of solidarity was the foundation for the european union. as we mark europe day, we are sadly once again seeing mass atrocities, genocide and war crimes taking place on our borders, with xenophobia and racism on the rise across europe. the eu must act in line with its historic heritage and formulate a clear policy and plan of action to stop and prevent genocide and mass atrocities around the world. i have been engaged with the european grassroots antiracist movement, joining a network of parliamentarians working to raise awareness and commemorate genocides in rwanda, bosnia and armenia so that we can learn the lessons of the past. we must use this terrible history as a platform for intercultural dialogue and exchange. never again!
mr president, this is an important time for the development of postal and delivery services across europe. our eu laws in this sector have been under review, and we shortly expect a proposed measure on parcel deliveries from the european commission. in fact, eu rules protect the right of households and businesses to reliable and affordable letter and parcel services. contrary to what we are told by eurosceptics, these rules do not require privatisation of our postal sector, and let us not forget how significant our mail is for jobs and also in terms of new technology and internet-based economic activity. physical products we buy online still need to get to us in real life. around 1.5 million jobs in the eu are provided by postal and delivery services. we want the sector to thrive through long-term investment and the creation of quality and sustainable jobs, not through increasingly precarious employment arrangements. i and many members of the european parliament – more than 50 – also support the keep me posted campaign to ensure that people can make proper decisions about how they receive key information affecting their lives. please join us in supporting this campaign.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, a commission proposal on how to deal with the expiry part of china’s accession protocol to the wto is imminent. the ecr group believes that certain fundamental principles should be considered within this process and these should go hand in hand with the commission’s impact assessment with industry, with some 5 000 responses, and it is vital that the results of these are taken into account ahead of any proposals being made. firstly, and undoubtedly, the case that chinese contravention of world trade rules has led to the dramatic decline of our own industries, most notably steel in the uk, in recent months. nevertheless, we expect the eu to lead the way on global trading rules and if we want china to play by the rules we have to do so ourselves. we therefore need to ensure the full compatibility of eu law with the eu’s obligations arising from its wto commitments, as well as the legal consequences of changes to china’s accession protocol. we also need to determine the full legal meaning of those sections of the protocol which will remain after 11 december 2016 so that we know how to proceed in our relationship with china. that being said, we must also consider the practical consequences as well as the legal ones. the positive and negative medium and long-term effects for industry, member states’ economies, and societal impacts need to be known ahead of any decision that is taken. we cannot do this blindly. and in order to deal with any of these negative repercussions in the future, it is critically important that we retain full ability to take timely, necessary and effective measures to tackle anti-competitive market prices by eu trading partners. these market-distorting actions result in injury to eu industry and having tools to combat them guarantees that the eu companies can continue to operate on a global level playing field. the clock is ticking towards the december deadline and we await the commission’s proposal to ensure future trade is fair.
mr president, we are having this debate because of the effect of chinese dumping on the steel industry in particular. i am very proud to say that i worked for 20 years in the steel industry. i started off way back when there was such a thing as british steel, a company that started in wolverhampton, and i had a very good long career in the steel trade. during that time, i have seen the british steel trade decline, and although it is still fighting hard and is technologically far more advanced than it ever was, it is still up against it. i share the frustrations of the protesters outside. this is a time when the politicians really need to be helping our industry and our people. i represent the west midlands of england, an area that grew to be great through the steel trade, through the manufacture and production of steel. that is how we became a world—famous area, and i am very proud of that as well. but now we are a shadow of what we once were. yes, some of it is to do with appallingly bad british government decisions over the years – no one to blame but ourselves. some of it is due to the application of crazy directives about green taxation and carbon emissions, which has caused damage to us. but now we have aggressive dumping by china, which is distorting the market. this is not about free trade. it is a hostile act to destroy our steel industry. if we allow this aggressive dumping, we will lose a vital part of our manufacturing base. we will lose a vital part of our tradition and our history – certainly in the uk – and it is strategically vital that we keep an operational steel industry. so, first and foremost, i would ask the british government to act on this – to have some guts for once and stand up for british manufacturing. but even then, i would urge the people here, just once, to do one thing to help manufacturing and not give china market economy status.
mr president, this debate is not really about china, but about whether europe collectively has the political will to defend its manufacturing industry. as the uk steel industry – and eu industry in general – struggles to remain competitive in the face of a tsunami of subsidised imports, the council, as others have said, has sat on its hands and failed to tackle the reform of trade defence instruments. unfortunately, i have to acknowledge that my own country is one of those who have been failing to push for urgent reform. but i want to stress in this debate that reform of tdi alone would not allow us to grant mes to china. chinese prices are not generally reliable, and they do not respond to market forces. we need a non-standard methodology like the analogue country one if we are to deal with china. i asked the council to unblock tdi reform as soon as possible and the commission to present a proposal which takes fully into account the potential repercussions on eu jobs and the future of eu industry. socialists in this house will not accept a proposal which weakens our manufacturing sector and puts thousands of jobs at risk.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the key challenge we face is to help member states create the right environment for businesses to grow and create new jobs. they can only do this if the market allows for it, if they can find qualified workers, if labour markets are sufficiently flexible and if they are not over burdened with regulation. i welcome the recent agreement on the iia on better law—making. legislation which is simpler and easier to understand and implement will help member states create an environment that will encourage companies to hire and manage staff, while protecting basic workers’ rights. europe’s strength lies in its diversity, and we must use this diversity to learn from one another. there is no one-size-fits-all template. many member states, including my own, have already put in place successful structural reforms. this has enabled britain to attract investment, to grow its economy and to create more and better jobs. our employment rate is now over 74%, while the unemployed claimant count is at its lowest for 40 years. there have been over two million apprenticeships giving people the chance to learn skills and get on in life. ultimately, europe’s greatest need is for growth – growth that will allow our businesses, especially smes, to thrive, to create new jobs and to provide a good future for all of europe’s young people.
madam president, i notice that 25 pages of amendments were put forward by herr giegold last night but they were only put forward in german. is that perhaps a precursor to the vote that is taking place in the united kingdom on 23 june? or are you now perhaps getting into hand to take english, with regards to a language, with regards to proceedings in its place?
in writing. ‒ as this was a technical vote, not involving any changes to the substance of the regulation, i voted in favour. the codification process is triggered when a regulation or directive has been amended by other legal acts 10 or more times. in simple terms, codification brings together all versions and amendments to the protection regulation.
in writing. ‒ the legislation is a proposal to codify council regulation ec no. 597/2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community. it gathers amendments into one single document. however, it also aims to transpose into eu law the provisions of the world trade organisation subsidies agreement to ensure proper and transparent application of the anti-subsidy rules. i considered it appropriate to abstain on this measure. although it is a legislative act, it does not alter the law. it will make no practical difference to industries impacted by subsidised imports. there is no reason to oppose it; if such measures were to come before the british parliament i might well support them. however, it should be the uk that implements wto rules in the uk, and not the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as it contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s trade defence instruments need to be reformed, and the commission and parliament have done their part. it is now up to national governments in the council of ministers to do their part.
in writing. ‒ as this was a technical vote, not involving any changes to the substance of the regulation, i voted in favour. the codification process is triggered when a regulation or directive has been amended by other legal acts 10 or more times. in simple terms, codification brings together all versions and amendments to the protection regulation.
in writing. ‒ the legislation is a proposal to codify council regulation ec no. 597/2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community. it gathers amendments into one single document. however, it also aims to transpose into eu law the provisions of the world trade organisation general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994 to ensure proper and transparent application of the anti-dumping rules. i considered it appropriate to abstain on this measure. although it is a legislative act, it does not alter the law. it will make no practical difference to industries impacted by subsidised imports. there is no reason to oppose it; if such measures were to come before the british parliament i might well support them. however, it should be the uk that implements wto rules in the uk, and not the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as it contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative motion. the original council regulation to protect european markets from dumped products has been substantially amended and reworded, to ensure maximum clarity and understanding, as well as ease of reference. it needed to be streamlined and given increased clarity which i feel that this has achieved. the recent scandal over the potential dumping of chinese steel in the european market showed how important these rules are. by streamlining them we improve our trade defences to make sure that european manufacturers are not unfairly undercut by their competitors. the legislative report also added clarity to the guidance on definitions within the text; in the fight to protect european, and by extension the british market from unfairly subsidised manufacturing this kind of clarity is vital. the recent case of tata steel proves that the european market needs to be defended against dumped products from outside of the european union. i feel that in this vote we took the correct course to achieve that.
in writing. ‒ manufacturing industries across europe and in the uk, like the steel and ceramic sectors, are open to unfair competition from goods being sold at under their production value, and being dumped onto the european market. european action is needed in order to protect these industries. european institutions have done their part and now governments must act, for the sake of all european citizens, including my own constituents in the uk. as a supporter of the alternative trade mandate, i have advocated that global trade must put people and the planet ahead of profit. as the eu moves to reform its trade policy, and engage with international players, it is indeed better placed than any other international player to achieve that goal. my colleagues and i will continue to work towards an eu policy of truly fair and sustainable trade.
madam president, the reason we are discussing hoovering up somebody else’s fish is because of the ecological calamity created in eu waters by the common fisheries policy, but i would invite the chamber to ponder the common fisheries policy as a symbol of a wider problem, a token or symptom, of a wider problem in europe, and it is the way in which we have elevated the goal of closer integration over any practical concerns. so despite the hoovering up of fish stocks, we have retained this obsession with the principle of a common resource to which all members have equal access, even though that discourages conservation. in the same way we are maintaining the euro, despite the immiseration of many of the people who have to use the euro. we are maintaining the principle of schengen despite the obvious migratory problems that it creates, because everything is sacrificed to the dogma of ever-closer union. it is worth noting that despite the obvious disaster that has afflicted british fisheries, the common fisheries policy formed no part of the recent renegotiation. that, in a way, is all you need to know if you think the eu may one day be reformed.
madam president, i voted against this issue – of course i voted against this issue. we see the debacle and the environmental and economic disaster that the common fisheries policy has brought across the european union, and now we wish to export our bad practice to the west coast of africa, or even further. we have seen what other fishery agreements have done to other countries on the west coast of africa. this is no way to be helping developing countries across the third world. we see eur 600 000 a year being given to just 34 fishing ships to take 6 500 tonnes of liberian fish. what effect is that having on fishing communities across liberia? i hope it is not, but i fear that it is having the same effect as has happened across many parts of west africa where we have seen fishermen not just seeing their stocks being hoovered up, but actually being killed by european union fishing boats ploughing them out of the water. it is an absolute disgrace and a humanitarian disaster.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned a fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and liberia. sinn féin generally does not support fisheries partnership agreements as here, when they are at the expense of developing countries and for the benefit of larger operators of the external fleets. for these reasons i abstained on the vote.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and liberia on fisheries suffers from the same problems as many other such arrangements. it is exploitative and elitist at the expense of ordinary people in liberia. consequently, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this agreement as euro-colonial exploitation benefiting the political class at the expense of ordinary africans.
in writing. – we oppose this agreement as euro-colonial exploitation benefitting the political class at the expense of ordinary africans
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa, the first of its kind between the eu and liberia). it contributes to greater cooperation between the eu, liberia and the western saharan region without any increase in eu funding. furthermore, it will help aid liberia’s recovery following years of political and economic upheaval, as well as civil war and the recent ebola crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which is the first sustainable fisheries agreement between the eu and liberia. it will reinforce cooperation, as well as enhance scientific cooperation and promote the development of its fishing sector.
in writing. – we oppose this agreement as euro-colonial exploitation benefitting the political class at the expense of ordinary africans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as its aim is to strengthen cooperation between the eu, liberia and the western saharan region in general, especially as regards its tuna production. it also strengthens the partnership framework to further develop a sustainable fisheries policy in liberia.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this agreement as euro-colonial exploitation benefitting the political class at the expense of ordinary africans.
in writing. – we oppose this agreement as euro-colonial exploitation benefitting the political class at the expense of ordinary africans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which is the first sustainable fisheries agreement between the eu and liberia. it will reinforce cooperation, in particular in the fight against iuu fishing, and help the country to improve its fisheries monitoring, control and surveillance capacity, as well as enhance scientific cooperation and promote the development of its fishing sector. it is expected to contribute to liberia's recovery after extremely difficult years of conflict and civil war, political and economic instability, and the recent ebola crisis. the agreement and protocol are in line with the reformed cfp and ensure that the fishing activities of eu vessels in liberian waters are carried out in respect of the principles of sustainability, good governance, transparency, non-discrimination and respect of human rights. this sfpa further expands the eu's network of tuna fisheries agreements in west africa.
in writing. ‒ this was a vote on a protocol for a fisheries partnership agreement with the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of four years. the money under this agreement to be allocated to the local fisheries sector is the bare minimum showing that the main aim in this agreement is to grant access to large external fisheries operators at the expense of the developing country in question. for this reason, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and mauritania on fisheries suffers from the same problems as many other such arrangements. it is exploitative and elitist at the expense of ordinary people in liberia. consequently, i voted against. i further note that the report itself acknowledges many of the shortcomings of the policy.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this agreement as euro-colonial exploitation benefitting the political class at the expense of ordinary africans.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this agreement as euro-colonial exploitation benefitting the political class at the expense of ordinary africans.
in writing. – we oppose this agreement as euro-colonial exploitation benefitting the political class at the expense of ordinary africans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which is balanced and has the approval of all parties, from civil society organisations and business to political groups. this new agreement marks a significant improvement on the previous one, and with no additional eu contribution. particularly welcome are the commitments made by mauritania to transparency and priority access for the european fleet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it represents a major step forward by comparison with its predecessor. the new commitments given by mauritania in relation to transparency and priority access for the european fleet are welcome. the agreement with mauritania should serve as an example for future agreements signed by the european union with other third countries.
in writing. – i oppose this agreement as euro-colonial exploitation benefitting the political class at the expense of ordinary africans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this balanced agreement, where all sides agree with the outcome – from civil society organisations to companies to politicians. the key part of it was to push the mauritanian state to be more transparent in terms of its deals with third countries. although this has been achieved to a certain extent, more work needs to be done.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this agreement as euro-colonial exploitation benefitting the political class at the expense of ordinary africans.
in writing. – we oppose this agreement as euro-colonial exploitation benefitting the political class at the expense of ordinary africans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is a balanced agreement, where all sides agree with the outcome as well as civil society organisations who were involved. this is the most significant protocol currently signed by the european union with a third country. the duration has been increased to four years which will ensure greater stability for the fleet fishing in mauritanian waters. this new protocol represents a major step forward by comparison with its predecessor. the new commitments given by mauritania in relation to transparency and priority access for the european fleet are welcome, particularly when you bear in mind the bitter experience of previous years, when mauritania opened up to foreign fleets at the same time as it denied access for the european fleet. the agreement with mauritania should serve as an example for future agreements signed by the european union with other third countries.
in writing. ‒ the colossal waste of taxpayers’ money which is provided to this programme every year amounts to eur 6.3 billion – nothing more than outrageous when there are other sectors crying out for assistance. the report concerned the extension of the galileo satellite system to various new sectors and a vote to allow korea to upgrade their own differential gps station to galileo signals. moreover, there were also concerns raised about the potential for the systems to be used for non-civil purposes. for example, the european commission considers law enforcement to be a ‘civilian’ purpose, so that this and other such borderline purposes could be put to use under the project. this is completely unacceptable to my party and therefore i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this agreement because i believe that the united kingdom should leave the european union; such matters should be determined at westminster.
in writing. ‒ we recognise the capabilities in the space technology of the republic of korea. however, we voted against the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the eu and the republic of korea as we believe that the uk parliament, not the unelected eu commission, should be entitled to negotiate such an agreement.
in writing. ‒ we recognise the capabilities in the space technology of the republic of korea. however, we voted against the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the eu and the republic of korea as we believe that the uk parliament, not the unelected eu commission, should be entitled to negotiate such an agreement.
in writing. – we recognise the capabilities in the space technology of the republic of korea. however, we voted against the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the eu and the republic of korea as we believe that the uk parliament, not the unelected eu commission, should be entitled to negotiate such an agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as uk businesses are heavily involved in the construction of the space infrastructure for the civil global navigation satellite system (gnss). in addition to this, british universities have benefitted significantly by leading the uptake and utilisation of the new capabilities that the system offers.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report along with colleagues from the socialists and democrats group. this is the conclusion of an agreement already ratified by the eu and all member states concerned. our policy is never to cooperate with the far right enf group, to which the rapporteur belongs.
in writing. ‒ this is the conclusion of an agreement already ratified by the eu and all member states concerned. i did not participate in this vote as my political group, the socialists and democrats, never cooperates with the far-right extremists, the enf.
in writing. – we recognise the capabilities in the space technology of the republic of korea. however, diane james mep voted against the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the eu and the republic of korea as we believe that the uk parliament, not the unelected eu commission, should be entitled to negotiate such an agreement.
in writing. ‒ we recognize the capabilities in the space technology of the republic of korea. however, we voted against the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the eu and the republic of korea as we believe that the uk parliament, not the unelected eu commission, should be entitled to negotiate such an agreement.
in writing. – we recognise the capabilities in the space technology of the republic of korea. however, we voted against the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the eu and the republic of korea as we believe that the uk parliament, not the unelected eu commission, should be entitled to negotiate such an agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to participate in this vote. this is the conclusion of an agreement which has already been ratified by the eu and the member states concerned. i did not participate in this vote because, alongside my socialist colleagues, i will never cooperate with nor legitimise far—right extremists like the enf group, of which the rapporteur gianluca buonanno is a member.
in writing. ‒ this is the conclusion of an agreement already ratified by the eu and all member states concerned. i did not participate in this vote as my political group, the socialists and democrats, never cooperates with the far-right extremists, the enf.
in writing. ‒ the content of the report is not controversial, and reflects an agreement already ratified by the eu and all member states concerned. however, the rapporteur of the report is a member of the far-right group ‘enf’ (europe of nations and freedom). i therefore did not participate in this vote as my political group, the socialists and democrats, never cooperates with the far-right extremists, the enf.
madam president, i supported this report, even though we in the czech republic are having a serious debate about the extent to which cohesion policy and the structural funds always produce only effective and meaningful projects. there are certainly projects that can be questioned. i am convinced that this policy has its purpose and that the positives outweigh the negatives. this is also why i supported this material and why i welcome the fact that this material brings two new tools that municipalities and cities will receive and through which they will be able to apply for money from european funds for their projects. as i said, the efficiency of the use of such money must be monitored, because these are indeed projects whose efficiency can be doubted, and secondly, everything must be done to ensure that the administrative burden does not harm or destroy the municipalities and cities, and that the municipalities and cities do not receive money for purely formal reasons.
madam president, i have just voted against this measure, as i do against all of the things on the committee on regional development that i sit on – and when it comes here – for a very simple point of principle. the people of the uk pay their taxpayers money; it should be going to the uk. it should be tax representation to the uk; not being distributed across the eu. i am terribly sorry if there are areas in the eu that are poor. i really am. but it should not be funded through british taxpayers’ money. we have our own issues and our own problems, and not least in the west midlands where i come from, where people cannot get in to see a doctor; they cannot get into the schools they want; people are being thrown out of council houses, and here we are, with british taxpayers’ money being distributed across the eu. well, i hope the projects go well for the people in the eu. i would rather you paid for them yourself rather than taking them from the british taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ this report contained a number of important provisions and in particular the focus on community-led local development (clld) was very welcome. the report was concerned with increasing the use of two new instruments for cohesion funding, namely community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment. itis allow for a strategic bundling of funding to meet the goals of priority programmes. these tools, if used more widely with a multi-fund approach, can increase flexible and more appropriate use of cohesion funds for local communities, regions and other sections of society. my party have been supportive and have encouraged the use of community-led local development as it is focused on a grassroots approach, empowering people from the ground up. as the shadow rapporteur on this file, i introduced a number of amendments to ensure that this bottom-up approach is paramount, as well as ensuring that cross-border regions are better taken into account in the use of this funding. moreover, clld is based on the experience in ireland of the leader approach to funding. my party have fought very hard on the issue of leader to ensure that funds are firstly received and secondly distributed evenly, equitably and effectively within the communities that need them.
in writing. ‒ under the principle of subsidiarity i believe that cohesion policy is a matter which should be reserved for individual nations, not for the european union. consequently i felt that i had no option but to vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because this scheme is yet more eu corporate nonsense intended to spread misleading pro-eu propaganda using british taxpayers’ money to fund it.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because this scheme is yet more eu corporate nonsense intended to spread misleading pro-eu propaganda using british taxpayers’ money to fund it.
in writing. – we voted against this because this scheme is yet more eu corporate nonsense intended to spread misleading pro-eu propaganda using british taxpayers’ money to fund it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because ensuring that local people have more say over what happens in their local area is essential, with many people in the uk unsure over how and where eu funds are spent, through the numerous and often complicated eu funding schemes. providing greater transparency over existing funds will give the public more information, whilst also helping communities have a bigger say over what happens in their local area. to do this, we need much less regulation and burdensome red tape. whilst, this is one step forward in helping communities have a greater say over what happens in their local area, the eu can do much more to cut regulations, reduce the administrative burden and streamline its various funding processes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it puts emphasis on the need for integrated and place-based approaches to foster economic, social and territorial cohesion, with an emphasis on bottom-up governance. the report seeks to combat some current issues, such as fear of an increase of local influence in certain member states, a limited budget for local government and difficulties integrating multiple funds.
in writing. – we voted against this because this scheme is yet more eu corporate nonsense intended to spread misleading pro-eu propaganda using british taxpayers’ money to fund it.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because this scheme is yet more eu corporate nonsense intended to spread misleading pro-eu propaganda using british taxpayers’ money to fund it.
in writing. – we voted against this because this scheme is yet more eu corporate nonsense intended to spread misleading pro-eu propaganda using british taxpayers’ money to fund it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it identifies the lack of trust between the different levels of government. while it is still too early to evaluate the effectiveness of the tools that the report refers, but it does highlight that there are some issues that can already be identified: fear for increase of local influence in certain member states, a limited budget for local government and difficulties integrating multiple funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. new eu regional policy tools have the potential to give communities a bigger say in what happens in their local area and in how eu regional development funds are spent. however, if they are to succeed, then clearer guidance and less red tape are a must, i therefore welcome calls for further clarity, guidance and support in relation to territorial development tools and for simplification across esi funds.
in writing. ‒ the current cohesion policy (2014-2020) puts greater emphasis on a bottom-up approach and that is why the eu put in place new tools such as community-led local development and integrated territorial investments. all these new tools are very much welcomed, on the condition that they are used to their full potential in member states and regions. it is therefore crucial to ensure that local and regional governments are provided with the necessary capacity support to be able to plan and deliver such programmes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the four votes on this file including the econ committee’s amendments, the commission’s proposal and the legislative resolution. this was a technical file amending existing regulations on how statistics are collected in the european community on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, reviewing the regulation to remove references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. while i am opposed to the general attempt to regulate all aspects of the economies of member states, this file related only to statistics and may improve the quality and transparency of economic statistics, so i did not believe a vote against was justified and abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution. i vote against all resolutions designed to give the commission greater power to pass delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ this proposed directive extends the power of the commission to issue delegated acts, accordingly ukip is against.
in writing. ‒ this proposed directive extends the power of the commission to issue delegated acts, accordingly ukip is against.
in writing. – this proposed directive extends the power of the commission to issue delegated acts, accordingly ukip is against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this, as the text agreed with the council includes pilot studies which are a good way of ascertaining the feasibility of improving foreign direct investment (fdi) statistics whilst also analysing costs and benefits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics concerning balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment as regards conferring of delegated and implementing powers upon the commission for the adoption of certain measures (com(2014)0379 – c8-0038/2014 – 2014/0194(cod)) as bad quality statistics played an important role in 2008 financial crisis. therefore, it is crucial to further harmonise statistics collection in the eu and improve the quality of the data collected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council which amends regulation (ec) no 184/2005 because i do not want to see a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis which was, in part, caused by poor quality statistics. labour meps support the further harmonisation of statistics collection in the eu and the improvement of the quality of data collected.
in writing. – this proposed directive extends the power of the commission to issue delegated acts, accordingly ukip is against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it is crucial to further harmonise statistics collection in the eu and improve the quality of the data collected.
in writing. ‒ this proposed directive extends the power of the commission to issue delegated acts, accordingly ukip is against.
in writing. – this proposed directive extends the power of the commission to issue delegated acts, accordingly ukip is against.
in writing. ‒ it is crucial that community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investments are up to date and accurate, historically. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council which amends regulation (ec) no 184/2005 because i do not want to see a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis which was, in part, caused by poor quality statistics. we are still coming out the other side of the crisis eight years on, and while the tories are doing their best to punish the poorest and most vulnerable in the uk for a problem primarily caused by financial mismanagement at the top, it is important that we do not ignore the details. therefore it is crucial to further harmonise statistics collection in the eu and improve the quality of the data collected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics concerning balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment as regards conferring of delegated and implementing powers upon the commission for the adoption of certain measures (com(2014)0379 – c8-0038/2014 – 2014/0194(cod)), as bad quality statistics played an important role in the 2008 financial crisis. therefore, it is crucial to further harmonise statistics collection in the eu and improve the quality of the data collected
in writing. ‒ this report calls for a definition for mountain regions, which make up 30% of eu territory, and the creation of a single strategic approach towards these regions. this sustainable, strategic approach is much needed and is a matter which affects certain areas of rural ireland, especially along the west coast and the northern part of our country. the report calls for steps to be taken to overcome issues of accessibility and a lack of infrastructure and public services, and to create employment and combat depopulation, while also taking into consideration cross-border issues. the challenges caused by youth exodus from these regions are also referred to. the irish government has treated rural ireland shamefully – services have been stripped, our island communities have been attacked, young people have fled in their thousands and the poverty rate in rural ireland has increased. the neglect of rural ireland including mountainous regions has starved our communities of investment, funding and services and has contributed to depopulation and isolation. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that cohesion policy should be a matter for individual nation states, not for the european union, and therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because we feel eu regional funding is a propaganda tool and shamelessly wastes uk taxpayers' money to fund it.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because we feel eu regional funding is a propaganda tool and shamelessly wastes uk taxpayers' money to fund it.
in writing. – we voted against this because we feel eu regional funding is a propaganda tool and shamelessly wastes uk taxpayers' money to fund it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome that this report does not call for new eu structures, new legislation, or outright new funding. this calls for a joined up approach, to tackle specific challenges faced by mountainous regions, which may help support better economic decision making, potentially leading to more private sector growth. as a result, i can support this file.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. mountainous regions of the eu have been neglected when it came to cohesion policy. this report highlights the potential for mountainous regions to contribute to europe 2020 targets, but also how the resources of these areas can create jobs, including many in the green energy sector. in addition, the report underlines how eu funds can help tackle poverty in these areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which emphasises how the mountainous regions of the eu can contribute to important targets, such as europe 2020. in particular, mountainous regions have high potential to provide green jobs which contribute to the fight against climate change. the rich variety of renewable energy sources could contribute to the eu renewable energy targets. eu cohesion funds have a fundamental role to play in reducing poverty and social exclusion within less developed mountainous regions.
in writing. – we voted against this because we feel eu regional funding is a propaganda tool and shamelessly wastes uk taxpayers' money to fund it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it emphasizes how the mountainous regions of the eu can contribute to eu targets, such as europe 2020.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because we feel eu regional funding is a propaganda tool and shamelessly wastes uk taxpayers' money to fund it.
in writing. – we voted against this because we feel eu regional funding is a propaganda tool and shamelessly wastes uk taxpayers' money to fund it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which puts focus on mountainous regions, an area which is all too often forgotten about. the report emphasises how the mountainous regions of the eu can contribute to its target, such as europe 2020. the natural resources and assets of these areas can provide jobs to improve employment within the eu, especially green jobs which contribute to the fight against climate change. the rich variety of renewable energy sources could contribute to the eu renewable energy targets. at the same time, poverty and social exclusion within less developed mountainous regions can be reduced with the help of eu funding.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support this report. i welcome genuine efforts to join up eu policy making, to make it more effective and to reveal the economic potential of regions with special characteristics.
in writing. ‒ mountainous regions in the eu were rarely in the focus of cohesion policy. this report emphasizes how the mountainous regions of the eu can contribute to its targets, such as europe 2020. the natural resources and assets of these areas can provide jobs to improve employment within the eu, especially green jobs which contribute to the fight against climate change. the rich variety of renewable energy sources could contribute to the eu renewable energy targets. at the same time, proper support is needed, through the use of structural funds, for initiatives that improve the social and cultural cohesion of mountainous communities and help to overcome physical isolation and lack of cultural diversity, in particular through access to and direct participation in arts and cultural life. i represent a beautiful rural, isolated, mountainous area in the north-west of england – cumbria – and i know first-hand the impact that the eu cohesion policy can bring to sustainable economic, social and cultural development of the regions.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, in 2001 on the eve of joining the euro, the greek prime minister said: ‘thankfully greece will finally be at the heart of europe. we will finally have greater prosperity. we will finally have greater stability. we will finally have greater ability to live our lives in prosperity’. well face that with what the greeks are facing today: greek unemployment at nearly 25%; youth unemployment at 52%; the numbers of greek young people who have left their country at 200 000; suicides since the crash at 6 000 people; the money spent on austerity – over eur 40 billion – and every month over the next few months greeks will have to find five billion to pay for those people who are controlling their country: the ecb and the troika. is that the prosperity, the growth and the great future for greece that was pronounced in 2001? no. but what you did have during the times of the crash was a man here in this chamber placing his arm around the greek prime minister at the time, when the people of greece had said do not give us the chance of austerity, and i am reminded of the line from caesar to brutus: ‘tu quoque, mi fili’ – ‘and also you, my friend’. because at the moment when that arm was placed around the greek prime minister at the time of the new government and after a referendum that said we did not want that austerity, what you allowed was the arm to embrace you and the slow knife and dagger of the eu’s austerity programme slice itself into the heart of the greek people. and whilst there are members here from greece from the epp and the socialists who spout solidarity, who believe that they want care for those greek people. well yes, it is fine for you with your champagne lifestyles, but bear in mind the families who have to suffer the deaths of the 6 000 members of their families who have committed suicide. greece is not getting any better, because we have already seen after five years the economy shrink by 27%. but there is hope for the greek people. as mr pittella said, yes, in the united kingdom we are hosting our referendum to leave the european union. our growth has been better, our job opportunities better, because we are not tied to the euro. we do not have the ecb telling us what to do. we do not have control by the imf, but believe me, to those socialists who vote to stay in the eu, that will happen to you, too. to the greek people, they say the bankers will leave, the businesses will leave, the money will leave your country. i am telling you, the people of europe will come to your country with freedom, prosperity and arms open wide when you set yourselves free by leaving the european union too, like britain will do on 23 june.
madam president, the world humanitarian summit aims to reshape the global approach to humanitarian aid and as the world’s biggest donor of aid, the eu will be there at the top table. from a uk perspective, with a referendum on the horizon, we need to consider our position in the world, and i firmly believe that together with our european partners we can reshape the global agenda for the better. if we want to lead the international community towards a more compassionate and humane world, britain must remain and work to make the eu stronger. however, with great power comes great responsibility. the eu must also hold true to its principles in all of its foreign policy, even when it is under pressure. as we deliver humanitarian aid to victims of war crimes we cannot then turn round and make quick-fix deals with regimes that commit such crimes. all of the eu’s agreements, including, for example, the khartoum process, must be consistent with our human rights values and humanitarian and development goals.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, producers across europe are not anti-trade; they see the value of fair and free trade. in my constituency in northern ireland, for example, we are large exporters in the agri-food market. however, while the principle of these trade deals being pursued by the commission may be sound in practice, many feel that agriculture is being used as a bargaining chip and kept to the end of the negotiations – and i refer to the ttip aspect of that as well, even though that may have gone on the back burner a bit until after the presidential election. the possible conclusion of the mercosur trade deal is what is now giving many in the agricultural community a great deal of worry. in particular, there is grave concern about the commission offering a quota of 78 000 tonnes of beef, of which 39 000 tonnes is high-quality beef at a tariff rate of 7.5%. commissioner, can you confirm what commissioner hogan has said today in wales – that it is off the table? it would be useful for many of us to know if that is a fact. a majority of member states, i understand, have made their position about this very clear to the council. if that is the case, it is certainly welcome that mercosur countries are already a major agri exporter to the european union – 86% of our beef imports and 70% of our poultry meat imports, and i do not think that the market can absorb much more. i understand that we are looking at the moment at how much more we can absorb within europe from other member states. i think that we should wait for that report to come from the commission, to see how much more the european union can actually absorb as far as the extra exports would be. commissioner, you cannot expect us to stand by and allow our beef, poultry and pig industries to be destroyed on these negotiations.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i would like to thank both the vice-presidents for being here tonight, and also the council. i think it is a very important statement of intent that you are all here tonight to embrace the concept of the universal agenda of the sdgs. when you talk around the capitals of europe, and indeed in this parliament, to be honest, we get the impression that we are still talking of sdgs as a replacement for the mdgs. it is something about development policy, exactly what you said, commissioner timmermans, and we need to move away from that, we need to get this comprehensive agenda. i was pleased with what the presidency said about bringing the member states together and their coordination. it would be useful to set it out for parliament so that we know what the member states and council are going to do: that will be very important. i have just got few specific questions for the commission stemming from new york. we have seen progress and statisticians have done their job: they produced these statistics, these indicators. is the commission looking at those statistics now? are you thinking how we can implement them and set some baselines across the commission? how are we preparing for the first meeting of the high-level political forum which takes place in less than 2 months’ time? how will the commission be represented? how will the member states be represented? will we speak with one voice in that forum? it would be useful for us to understand that. we know that the development aspects will be covered by a new consensus on development. i am very pleased that commissioner timmermans has said that we will look at the 2020 strategy for the internal aspects. we must have a universal agenda and we must be coherent. we must not lose sight of important things such as financing for development, and the major conference this week in london about corruption. we all know that there is money there if we can harness it for governments to invest in the interest of society and not to have it stashed away in bank accounts in places like panama. so there are some very important coherent issues and i very much welcome what has been said tonight and the concept of agenda that the commissioners have spoken about.
madam president, i would like to congratulate vice-president timmermans on an excellent speech, where he asked us to be comprehensive in dealing with sustainable development and ending poverty. a comprehensive approach to this up to 2030 requires us to recognise that global poverty has still got a billion people in need, but we also have a huge humanitarian crisis in the middle east and we need to understand that in its totality if we are going to make any progress. the 17 sustainable development goals are a great – and very important – comprehensive, sustainable and enjoined effort. but it requires money – it requires usd 2.5 trillion. my report, which was passed in parliament last month, points out how to raise these sort of funds – by leverage, which we have done, and the commission has committed itself to that – and we can actually involve the private sector, in public—private partnership, to act comprehensively, reduce poverty and also sustainably help the eu in that problem. but i am already told that the un is now six months behind creating the 230 indicators that we need. we must not allow the united nations to use its bureaucracy to slow down this process. the global humanitarian crisis which i mentioned a few minutes ago also requires that the new secretary—general of the united nations, who we are going to look towards to implement our programme, has some humanitarian experience. it should not really be just someone who can run government, but someone who has got hands—on experience of development and humanitarian work. in that regard, i think parliament should also have a further role in scrutinising the work of the un and in the sustainable development goals up to 2030 in the programme that we have devised because it is our european taxpayers’ money that will be used.
madam president, we must pay tribute to jordan and lebanon, whose hospitality has helped ease the pressures facing eu countries by people traversing the dangerous migration routes into europe, exacerbated by chancellor merkel’s earlier unwise comments. concerns have already been raised by the archbishop of canterbury, highlighting the continued threats facing christians and other minorities seeking equal sanctuary, and i would like to hear what actions are being taken to protect such groups, who face real threats within refugee camps from radical islamists. as a grandson of both an ashkenazi refugee and also of a lady who opened her own house to a family of refugees fleeing the 1956 hungarian revolution, i well understand the human suffering endured during a refugee crisis. however, i am concerned by the wider political motives being played out as we hear continued commentary of how the eu has supposedly delivered peace since the second world war, when in fact it has actually been achieved by the united nations and nato. so rather than channelling member states’ money through eu institutions – which, at best, have a mixed record – let us instead work through the institutions that have a track record in not just bringing opposing sides to the negotiating table, but are best able to deliver results, rather than the aspirational aims of an eu desperately seeking a wider role on the international stage.
madam president, the money that the eu granted to lebanon and jordan was simply a bribe to stop more people coming to the eu as brussels tried to deal with a migrant crisis which is bringing this place to its knees. over the winter, refugees in camps in lebanon had to burn toxic plastic because they had no firewood, yet give the eu a big stage to announce its benevolence and it finds billions to give away. the real reason it is so generous to these countries taking in refugees is because if they follow the other millions crossing the border into greece, the project would collapse. the commission has decided it is better instead to use taxpayers’ money to keep these people in camps, some of which are run by daesh, whilst economic migrants flood the eu’s external borders – most making their way to richer countries like germany, sweden and the uk. the eu is taking control of our immigration and asylum policy and is fining countries a quarter of a million pounds per refugee they refuse to take in, and the people have had enough. we can see that in the polls ahead of the uk referendum and in the increasingly desperate stories being pumped out by project fear, including disgraceful claims that if we leave this political union we will be plunged into a third world war. it is british lives which brought europe out of tyranny and nato which kept the peace, not the eu – just as the eu will have no impact in dealing with the syrian war.
madam president, i would like to thank the high representative for all she is doing. syrian refugees now make up almost 20% of the combined population of lebanon and jordan. to put things in perspective, this is equivalent to the eu taking in over 100 million refugees. the eu has significantly stepped up assistance, becoming the leading donor with over eur 4.7 billion spent. however, no amount of aid is going to help lebanon and jordan accommodate the immense number of syrian refugees. we must end the syrian conflict so that refugees can eventually return home. otherwise, the eu will have to engage in greater burden sharing – financially, but also in taking in more syrian refugees. meanwhile, we must work with these countries to address legal frameworks pertaining to their treatment of refugees. madam high representative, are you planning to raise the question of employment laws for refugees, given that there is strong evidence that many syrian refugees – including women and children – are exploited in the workplace?
madam president, as my colleague afzal khan said and the previous speaker just said, jordan and lebanon’s handling of the refugee crisis should put us in europe to shame. our inability to cope with one million refugees really should make us worry and be humbled compared to what the lebanese and the jordanians have been able to do. i do not know lebanon very well, but i know jordan quite well. jordan has, over the years, taken in palestinian refugees and refugees from the iraqi war. they have not, by and large, put these people in camps, but have welcomed them and integrated them into their society and made them part of the jordanian economy. the syrian crisis, however, has put an almost unmanageable strain on that country. i applaud the commission’s response to the crisis in both these countries. i hope that, when more resources become available, we will be able to put more money into the area, but we also need to look at our trade policy and other policies to see how we can help jordan. they are not blessed with the natural resources of their neighbours, so we should be looking at how we can, for example, change our rules of origin to help them trade more with us to create jobs inside the country and tackle the very severe unemployment they face.
madam president, i have just come back from a visit to jordan, where i attended the recent women in parliaments conference. as the eu has very rightfully provided the lion’s share of humanitarian aid to jordan and lebanon, we must be sure that the funding goes to empower women and girls in these communities so that they can take a lead in building up lives in harsh conditions and lay the ground for post—conflict peace building. the no lost generation programme, aiming to provide education to more than half a million syrian refugee children, is incredibly important. education must aim to empower young women and girls socially, economically and politically, and address specific gender-based needs such as violence against women and girls. jordan has suffered economic losses because of the wars going on around it, with factories closed in the border region and many jobs being lost, yet still it has managed to welcome and house millions of syrian and iraqi refugees. the european union and its national governments bear a grave moral responsibility to provide these refugees with shelter and protection. we must take an example from jordan and lebanon and follow suit.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, following nearly two decades of reform, a programme of investment and infrastructure, the establishment of a sustainable social security system and the development of a sovereign wealth fund, the economy continues to grow. this is the story that venezuela should have been able to boast about, but unfortunately the reality today is dramatically different. as supermarket shelves lie empty, a two-day week for the public sector workers has been imposed to conserve energy and government hand-outs grind to a halt, the situation in venezuela is dire. in this respect, venezuela has become a poster child for the populist, corrupt, crony, socialist ideology of mr chávez. hugo chávez’s mix of government giveaways and bloating of the public sector in a bid to cling to power for nearly two decades, whilst enriching himself and those around him, has clearly been an unmitigated disaster for that south american country. today, we catch on as a successor maduro seeks to build on that legacy, only this time lacking both the oil market high prices and the charisma. as is only inevitable, economic crises are leading to political crisis, and with increasing calls now for maduro to go, the country appears to be heading in a disastrous direction. only this week, we saw the assassination of the opposition unt leader german mavare. as this all unfolds, it is difficult not to look at neighbouring colombia and reflect on the economic and security achievements of that democracy, seen there without the high oil price advantages afforded to venezuela. it is now time for a new democratic model for venezuela and a new approach. venezuela deserves better than the ghastly chávez legacy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, in the occupied west bank, you can almost taste the dust from demolished homes in the air. since january this year, more than 500 palestinian homes and other structures have been bulldozed by israeli authorities – more than in all of 2015. these demolitions are a clear human rights violation, affecting thousands of palestinians, and are an obstacle to peace. they are part of a deliberate strategy to displace palestinians out of the west bank and make way for illegal israeli settlements. in 2014, the eu initiated a ‘structured dialogue’ with israel, to end the demolitions within six months. in 2016, two such meetings have taken place, and israel shows nothing but contempt for the eu and the aid given to palestine –israel has increased its demolitions, especially of eu-funded structures. it breaks up solar panels, flattens water tanks and bulldozes classrooms, playgrounds and basic shelter. you can almost see them sneer at you. you can almost hear them shout at you: ‘and what are you going to do about it?’ unfortunately, they know that the answer is nothing, and it is going to be nothing in six months’ time. this outrage must stop. we have to prevent israel from acting with impunity. it is wrong. the palestinian people need your help, ms mogherini, they need more than words: they need action, and they need it now.
mr president, the increasing demolition by the israeli authorities in area c of palestinian homes, schools and factories has been well documented by the eu heads of mission. in fact, in the first few months of 2016, more palestinian homes have been demolished than in the whole of 2015, thus making families homeless and undermining the two-state solution. with the failure of the so-called structured dialogue clear for all to see, i believe it is time to increase the pressure for action from the israeli government. so will ms mogherini make the holding of the eu—israel association council and the proposed visit of prime minister netanyahu conditional on a total freeze of demolitions? will she also publish the number and value of demolished eu projects and support parliament’s... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we have seen waves of demolitions and the continued cruelty of forcible transfers in the west bank, and let us not forget gaza. targeting palestinian homes and eu—maintained projects has surged to an unprecedented degree in the last few months, and this during a period of eu—israeli dialogue aimed at halting the demolitions. these practices are banned under international law and the israeli authorities are fully aware of this. by allowing this to carry on, we are failing the palestinians, as well as our own citizens, who contributed to the eu-funded projects. even more, repeated failure has brought us to the brink of risking the viability of a two—state solution. israel must comply with international law if it wishes the eu to upgrade its relationship with it. madam high representative, will you make the costs of the destruction of eu-funded projects publicly available and demand financial compensation from the israelis for the damage?
mr president, in a few days’ time israelis will mark their annual national memorial day for victims of the conflict and their 68th independence day, so it is a good time to reflect on the state of play. the israeli government has demolished hundreds of palestinian homes, schools and clinics in recent months, leaving thousands of palestinians homeless and under pressure to relocate. israeli ngos who report on human rights abuses oppose the occupation and advocate peace. they find themselves under pressure from the government and right-wing groups. in the meantime, the israeli government plans to expand settlements in strategic areas like e1 outside jerusalem and e2 near bethlehem, which will block off palestinian communities and threaten the viability of the two-state solution, putting both palestine and israel at risk. so the eu must make clear that the two-state solution is a red line, demand a stop to these demolitions and request full compensation for the damage caused to eu infrastructures.
in writing. – last june i saw at first hand the impact of demolitions and demolition orders in the west bank. with colleagues from the efa group i met people in silwan in east jerusalem who are being forced out of their home-district. displacements and demolitions are on the increase. the eu has provided humanitarian aid and funding to threatened communities in the west bank, only to see projects destroyed by the occupying forces. compensation should be paid for this destruction. eu humanitarian activities and assistance are carried out in full compliance with international humanitarian law and humanitarian principles. many of my constituents in wales have raised this issue with me to demand action.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, europol needs new tools to face new challenges. today, after a long period of negotiation, we are finally providing ourselves a renewed mandate to tackle the huge security challenges we all face. under the excellent leadership of rob wainwright, europol has become a critical hub for cooperation, operational support and intelligence exchange throughout the eu. this regulation gives europol the legal tools needed to respond more swiftly to threats and it gives our constituents and our member states confidence that europol is conforming to extremely high standards of data protection and transparency. it allows meps and national parliaments to keep watch over their actions to ensure accountability, something which can only strengthen trust in our law enforcement cooperation across the union. more importantly, this regulation gives a solid basis for the work of europol’s internet referral unit to be stepped up. with terrorist organisations increasingly using social media as a recruitment tool, and thousands of twitter and facebook accounts being created for recruitment purposes, we need to work together to take down this material as soon as it is posted. through this regulation, europol can work directly with social media providers – providers who have frankly too often washed their hands of responsibility for the propaganda posted on their platforms. europol is not a european fbi, and it does not need to be. it should continue to operate as a hub for information exchange and for cooperation and coordination amongst all of those in law enforcement. our fight against terrorism and serious crime is one where we are too often several steps behind our enemy. this regulation is an important step in closing that gap. europol has made europe and the uk a safer place for nearly 20 years, and, mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, i congratulate you on your hard work and your persistence in making sure we get a quality regulation which will aid europol in its continued fight against human trafficking, child exploitation, terrorism and, of course, smuggling.
madam president, all authorities must be subject to adequate scrutiny. we in sinn féin understand, of course, the need for enhanced cooperation between countries, especially when it comes to tackling terrorism, drug dealing and human trafficking. now we also believe that all powers must be held to account. the removal of the joint supervisory body – the only genuine oversight group with on-premises access to europol activity – means new powers will not be adequately monitored. this is deeply unfortunate, particularly as this report aims to mandate europol with handling substantive amounts of personal data and seeks to empower europol to determine what online content is legal. with all power comes responsibility, and accountability breeds responsibility. i think that is something that everyone in this house would agree with.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i would like to add my thanks to our rapporteur for the work that she has done on this, and just say a word to the previous speaker: i would agree with a lot of what you have said, but i do not think we are necessarily making a choice here – by restricting the rights of some, you do not necessarily expand the rights of others. i think this is an important piece of legislation, and i think it is important not only for the individuals concerned or for the institutions with which some of them may be studying or working, but it is also an important part of a soft foreign policy. some of the questions raised here today about the difficulties of access – about the feeling that you are not actually wanted as a student or a researcher in the european union – have been raised with a number of us during many of the delegation trips that we have travelled on to various third countries. i also want to say that i welcome the commission’s statement in terms of its interpretation of transposition, about rejection being based on a case-by-case basis, because i think that is really important. i, too, on behalf of my group, welcome the improvements within this directive in terms of reducing a number of the barriers and the difficulties that people have faced. while we were working on this report, we came across cases of people who had not been able to take up research positions because they had waited so long for various permissions. that not only affected their lives, but the research projects on which they were coming to work. we also welcome the possibilities of having greater opportunities to finalise your research if there have been particular problems during the course of it, and of course the questions about families being able to stay together is also extremely important. for volunteers, the question about this possibility to develop intercultural understanding, we see the exchange of expertise, too, as crucial for strengthening civil society – such an important part of any democracy.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, this debate is about rules for people coming from outside the european union into the european union, whether for studying, for research, for training, for voluntary work, to become an au pair or for an educational project. quite often this kind of migration actually does have a positive impact on society, so i am not going to stand here and argue that international students coming to the uk, paying fees to british universities, helping some of the top universities in the world to survive, is in any way a bad thing. in fact, in a lot of ways i would rather have non-eu students than eu students coming to the united kingdom under the current rules, because we actually get a rather rough deal when the british government gives eu students loans which are often not repaid. so what is the problem? well, although people coming to the uk to study can be a good thing, it is also a decision that we should take as the british people ourselves, based on common sense and thinking about what we need for our colleges and our universities and what is right for the united kingdom. this eu nonsense, expecting us to extend these changes not just to those who wish to study or do research here but also to their families and also for an additional 18 months after the course of study is completed, is likely to result in something approaching a free—for—all. at the moment, we in the uk do have an opt—out, so the side in the british referendum campaign which is currently busy claiming that brexit will lead inexorably to world war iii are going to be the ones that will accuse me of scaremongering. but an opt-out is only an opt-out until some bright spark decides that they want us to opt back in. after that, it is too late, because of the ratchet principle of the acquis communautaire in this union. maybe you trust david cameron not to opt back in and maybe you trust jeremy corbyn, but watch the labour party in today’s vote, because if labour votes for this today you can bet that any future labour government would vote to opt us back in. so whenever we have an opt—out, you have to ask yourself: do you trust cameron, do you trust corbyn, and do you trust every future british prime minister? if you cannot say yes to all three, the bottom line is that by voting to stay in the european union, you vote to risk handing over control of our immigration policy to brussels.
mr president, on a point of order regarding rule 130 on parliamentary written questions (pqs). regardless of our party or personal views we are all parliamentarians and one of the most important powers we have is the ability to hold the executive to account through parliamentary pqs, but these pqs are now being treated with contempt by the services. questions are not receiving proper answers, they are evasive, incomplete and dismissive, and the timescale for answering is frequency exceeded. rule 130(5) states six weeks is the acceptable deadline, yet some are taking up to 11 weeks. we are also being made subject to bureaucratic limits on questions, imposed by those very same technocrats. this undermines democracy and must be urgently remedied. (applause)
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. while i support strong regulation of investment firms, i believe a review into the regulation of these firms should be completed before meps decide whether commodity dealers should be exempt from any requirements. the proposed regulation aimed to extend an exemption for commodity dealers from large exposure requirements and own funds requirements contained within the current capital requirements regulation from the end of 2017 to the end of 2020. there are several aspects sinn féin is opposed to in the capital requirements regulation and we would likely oppose the exemption from these requirements for commodity dealers on the basis that they are often large investment firms that engage in high-risk investment practices. but i abstained instead of rejecting the proposal because the commission is engaged in carrying out a review that will include both general investment firms and commodity dealers to determine what regulation is most appropriate to deal with the risk profile of both. the review will not be completed before the current sunset clause in the crr will expire at the end of 2017, so i prefer not to vote on whether or not to continue the exemption until the review is completed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution. there have already been three years for rules to be drafted; a suggestion that it could take a total of seven years is absurd. just how complex do we expect rules which take seven years to draft to be? i am concerned that this will result in incredibly bad rules; i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ eu financial services regulators have had three years to write rules to calculate how much capital commodity dealers should keep in reserve under the capital requirements directive, the commission is asking for another four years. if the rules are so complicated that they take seven years to write, they will be unworkable. accordingly ukip is against.
in writing. – eu financial services regulators have had three years to write rules to calculate how much capital commodity dealers should keep in reserve under the capital requirements directive, the commission is asking for another four years. if the rules are so complicated that they take seven years to write, they will be unworkable. accordingly ukip is against.
in writing. ‒ i was content to support this report which extends the exemptions for commodity dealers from the capital requirements regulation until the end of 2020. this is a logical decision in light of the ongoing review, ensuring commodity dealers will not have to comply with two different sets of regulations in a short period of time.
in writing. ‒ along with s&d colleagues, i voted in favour of extending the exemption for commodity dealers, because they have specific needs which cannot be met if they are treated as if they were banks or other investment firms. this extension gives regulators the time they need to set up a prudential regime which works for commodity dealers.
in writing. ‒ the fourth capital requirements directive (crd iv) and the capital requirements regulation (crr) introduced new rules governing banks and investment firms. i voted in favour of extending the exemption for commodity dealers, because they have specific needs which cannot be met if they are treated as if they were banks or other investment firms. this extension gives regulators the time they need to set up a prudential regime which works for commodity dealers.
in writing. – eu financial services regulators have had three years to write rules to calculate how much capital commodity dealers should keep in reserve under the capital requirements directive, the commission is asking for another four years. if the rules are so complicated that they take seven years to write, they will be unworkable. accordingly ukip is against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending the exemption for commodity dealers, because they have specific needs which cannot be met if they are treated as if they were banks or other investment firms. this extension gives regulators the time they need to set up a prudential regime which works for commodity dealers.
in writing. ‒ eu financial services regulators have had three years to write rules to calculate how much capital commodity dealers should keep in reserve under the capital requirements directive, the commission is asking for another four years. if the rules are so complicated that they take seven years to write, they will be unworkable. accordingly ukip is against.
in writing. – eu financial services regulators have had three years to write rules to calculate how much capital commodity dealers should keep in reserve under the capital requirements directive, the commission is asking for another four years. if the rules are so complicated that they take seven years to write, they will be unworkable. accordingly ukip is against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, it extends the exemption for commodity dealers as they have specific needs which cannot be met if they are treated as if they were banks or other investment firms. this extension gives regulators the time that is needed to set up a prudential regime which works for commodity dealers without unnecessarily handicapping them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending the exemption for commodity dealers, because they have specific needs which cannot be met if they are treated as if they were banks or other investment firms. this extension gives regulators the time they need to set up a prudential regime which works for commodity dealers.
mr president, under the leadership of my compatriot rob wainwright, europol has developed into a crucial hub for intelligence sharing and for operational support between national forces. today, we have voted to give europol sharper tools in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, as well as a strong element of supervision by experts and parliamentarians at both national and european level. the europol internet referral unit has been operational for almost a year, helping to take down jihadist recruitment propaganda on the internet and on social media. in the first six months, it received over 1700 referral decisions for content to be removed. with this new agreement, it will be able to increase its capabilities in the coming months and enable europol to continue to play a crucial role in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. for that reason, i supported it today.
mr president, we kept on being told in this debate that crime does not recognise national borders. we were told this as though it was some kind of original insight. of course it does not and for a long time states in europe have cooperated internationally. we have interpol, we have the hague convention, we have extradition treaties and we recognise time spent in another country’s prison. all of these are instruments that apply globally. that is not what this debate about. it is not what europol is about. europol, as the authors frankly admitted when it was first put forward after tampere, is about creating a federal police force – their words, not mine. it is about creating a kind of european fbi and that is the choice for us. it is between association and absorption. it is between alliance and assimilation. it is between cooperation and coercion.
mr president, we all want security, we all want cooperation and we all want to work together with organisations like interpol. in the uk we want to work together with the five eyes network, for example, but i have serious concerns over the lack of transparency in europol. the ‘remain’ campaign in the uk seems to imply that leaving the european union would harm security, but richard walton, former head of counterterrorism at new scotland yard, said membership of the eu does not really convey any benefits that we could not access from outside it. air chief marshal michael graydon said our intelligence relationships are with individual member countries, not europe, so it is irrelevant whether we are in or out. if we want to work together internationally, of course we will keep working with, we will keep sharing information with other countries, but we do not need to be part of a european union to do that. we can work together perfectly well and ensure our national security, in fact better rather than worse, and therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ there was no final vote on this report as it was at second reading phase. however, i voted in favour of a rejection amendment. the council proposal enhanced and expanded the remit and operational capacity of europol, which included giving the enforcement agency the power to determine what online content is illegal or not and substantially increased data collection power. in addition to this enhancing power, the council proposal sought to remove oversight and monitoring of europol activity. whilst the report does subject europol to tighter data protection restrictions, the removal of the joint supervisory body removes all on-site regulation and the monitoring of national databases. my party has been to the forefront in raising concerns about the current deterioration of much earned civil liberties across europe at present. this report reflected many of those concerns and i was very concerned with the infringement of basic civil liberties. my party will continue to monitor the infringement of human rights and civil liberties both in ireland and in europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip are against this report as we are principally against europol and the extension of power of europol. even though this report does increase the potential to scrutinise europol and hold the institution accountable we believe that the best way to increase safety is to remove schengen and europol, and instead have increased member state cooperation through institutions like interpol.
in writing. – ukip are against this report as we are principally against europol and the extension of power of europol. even though this report does increase the potential to scrutinise europol and hold the institution accountable we believe that the best way to increase safety is to remove schengen and europol, and instead have increased member state cooperation through institutions like interpol.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal, which provides legal certainty for europol activities and to contribute to further eu-level cooperation of law-enforcement authorities. the regulation provides extensive rules and provisions for the processing of information by europol and has been aligned with the recently adopted data protection directive. it will also establish a specialised joint parliamentary scrutiny group to monitor europol’s activities, including any potential impact on fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this proposal as it will provide the legal certainty for europol’s activities which is essential for further eu-level cooperation of law-enforcement authorities. the regulation provides extensive rules and provisions for the processing of information by europol and has been aligned with the recently—adopted data protection directive. it will also establish a specialised joint-parliamentary scrutiny group to monitor europol’s activities, including any potential impact on fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. – diane james mep and her fellow colleagues are against this report as we are principally against europol and the extension of power of europol. even though this report does increase the potential to scrutinise europol and hold the institution accountable we believe that the best way to increase safety is to remove schengen and europol, and instead have increased member state cooperation through institutions like interpol.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal to provide legal certainty for europol activities and to contribute to further eu-level cooperation of law-enforcement authorities. the regulation provides extensive rules and provisions for the processing of information by europol and has been aligned with the recently adopted data protection directive. it will also establish a specialised joint parliamentary scrutiny group to monitor europol’s activities, including any potential impact on fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ ukip are against this report as we are principally against europol and the extension of power of europol. even though this report does increase the potential to scrutinise europol and hold the institution accountable we believe that the best way to increase safety is to remove schengen and europol, and instead have increased member state cooperation through institutions like interpol.
in writing. – ukip are against this report as we are principally against europol and the extension of power of europol. even though this report does increase the potential to scrutinise europol and hold the institution accountable we believe that the best way to increase safety is to remove schengen and europol, and instead have increased member state cooperation through institutions like interpol.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this proposal as it will provide the legal certainty for europol’s activities so that it can contribute to further eu-level cooperation of law-enforcement authorities. the regulation provides extensive rules and provisions for the processing of information by europol and has been aligned with the recently—adopted data protection directive. it will also establish a specialised joint-parliamentary scrutiny group to monitor europol’s activities, including any potential impact on fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support this proposal to provide legal certainty for europol activities and to contribute to further eu-level cooperation of law-enforcement authorities. the regulation provides extensive rules and provisions for the processing of information by europol and has been aligned with the recently adopted data protection directive. it will also establish a specialised joint parliamentary scrutiny group to monitor europol’s activities, including any potential impact on fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support this proposal to provide legal certainty for europol activities and to contribute to further eu-level cooperation of law-enforcement authorities. the regulation provides extensive rules and provisions for the processing of information by europol and has been aligned with the recently adopted data protection directive. it will also establish a specialised joint parliamentary scrutiny group to monitor europol’s activities, including any potential impact on fundamental rights and freedoms. i have a particular interest in europol’s vital work tackling sex trafficking and the sexual abuse of children and young people, including online abuse. the agency’s partnership with missing children europe and the member states’ ‘safer children’ centres, such as the cambridge-based uk’s internet watch foundation, is an excellent example of why our membership of the eu contributes to our safety and security and improves the lives of women, children and vulnerable people. exiting the eu would increase the risk of predatory behaviour going undetected resulting in more victims and fewer prosecutions. this is not a risk i am prepared to take in the forthcoming uk referendum.
mr president, what we are seeing with the migration crisis is the tragedy of the commons. by dismantling national frontiers and focusing only on an external one, we have incentivised – and thereby greatly exacerbated – the net influx of illicit migrants into the eu. of course, if your starting point is that the eu should be a single country and should therefore just have a single border and not have what are called internal frontiers, that may be a price worth paying. but we should be very clear that this is the elevation of the dogma of closer amalgamation over any practical consequences, in the same way that the euro is now about preserving closer integration despite the immiseration being inflicted on tens of millions of people who have to use the euro. in a way, the choice that britain faces on 23 june is whether to make those problems our problems. because we kept our passport checks and because we kept our currency, we have other options. we can reorient back to the rest of the world the bits of the world that are still growing.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report was to relax entry requirements for students who are travelling, training, volunteering etc. and therefore to improve the right for students to move around the eu. i voted in favour of this report, but i was disappointed that the irish government chose to opt out of this directive, which sets out common rights and procedural guarantees for job-seeking students and researchers. (which dealt with the students directive and the researchers directive from 2004 and 2005 respectively)
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rejection of the council position. whilst the uk has an opt-out in this area, there are no guarantees that: 1. the current british government, or any subsequent government, will not concede this opt-out permanently and irrevocably. 2. this will not impact the uk through citizenship being granted to non-eu nationals in eu countries, who would then gain the right to live and work in the uk. the legislation itself harmonises matters which are best dealt with by member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip mep’s have voted in favour of our group’s rejection amendment which calls for the council position to be rejected and the procedure to be closed. ukip believes that it is not the competency of the european union to create and manage entry requirements for third country nationals into the union. we believe that this is a decision that sovereign national governments should have the ability to decide.
in writing. – ukip mep’s have voted in favour of our group’s rejection amendment which calls for the council position to be rejected and the procedure to be closed. ukip believes that it is not the competency of the european union to create and manage entry requirements for third country nationals into the union. we believe that this is a decision that sovereign national governments should have the ability to decide.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because it is my view that immigration policies are a national competency for the uk to decide. the british government has also opted-out of this mechanism.
in writing. ‒ it is extremely important that the eu moves towards enhancing safer and legal routes to europe; labour meps support the text as it represents a great added value to managed migration particularly in context of the current migration crisis. however, it is important to remember that this report will not impact uk immigration policy concerning third-country nationals as the uk has an opt-out of eu justice and home affairs measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it represents a great added value to managed migration particularly in context of the current migration crisis. this report will not impact uk immigration policy concerning third-country nationals as the uk has an opt-out of eu justice and home affairs measures.
in writing. – ukip mep’s have voted in favour of our group’s rejection amendment which calls for the council position to be rejected and the procedure to be closed. ukip believes that it is not the competency of the european union to create and manage entry requirements for third country nationals into the union. we believe that this is a decision that sovereign national governments should have the ability to decide.
in writing. ‒ it is extremely important that the eu moves towards enhancing safer and legal routes to europe. i therefore supported the text as it represents a great added value to managed migration particularly in context of the current migration crisis. this report will not impact uk immigration policy concerning third-country nationals as the uk has an opt-out of eu justice and home affairs measures.
in writing. ‒ ukip mep’s have voted in favour of our group’s rejection amendment which calls for the council position to be rejected and the procedure to be closed. ukip believes that it is not the competency of the european union to create and manage entry requirements for third country nationals into the union. we believe that this is a decision that sovereign national governments should have the ability to decide.
in writing. – ukip mep’s have voted in favour of our group’s rejection amendment which calls for the council position to be rejected and the procedure to be closed. ukip believes that it is not the competency of the european union to create and manage entry requirements for third country nationals into the union. we believe that this is a decision that sovereign national governments should have the ability to decide.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is extremely important that the eu moves towards enhancing safer routes into europe. i supported this text as it represents a great added value to managed migration, particularly in the context of the current migration crisis. this report will not impact uk immigration policy concerning third-country nationals, as the uk has an opt-out of eu justice and home affairs measures.
in writing. ‒ it is extremely important that the eu moves towards enhancing safer and legal routes to europe; labour meps support the text as it represents a great added value to managed migration particularly in context of the current migration crisis. this report will not impact uk immigration policy concerning third-country nationals as the uk has an opt-out from eu justice and home affairs measures.
in writing. ‒ it is extremely important that the eu moves towards enhancing safer and legal routes to europe; labour meps support the text as it represents a great added value to managed migration particularly in the context of the current migration crisis. it also contains measures to improve mobility of foreign students and researchers inside the eu. however, it is important to note that the report will not impact uk immigration policy concerning third-country nationals as the uk has an opt-out from eu justice and home affairs measures.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted for this text as it represents a great added value to managed migration, particularly in the context of the current migration crisis. this report will not impact uk immigration policy concerning third-country nationals as the uk has an opt-out from eu justice and home affairs measures.
mr president, we just had council elections in the uk. labour and conservative councils have been squealing, saying ‘we don’t have the money for libraries, museums, theatres, road safety measures’ and yet these same political parties support the spending of millions upon millions of pounds of uk tax payers’ money on closer eu governance and cohesion. this is a disgrace. these people squeal like babies at home that there’s no money, and yet send their money for redistribution across europe. i stand against eu governance. i voted against this measure for more cohesion spending, and i will always – god willing – stand against the eu spending uk taxpayers’ money in this way.
in writing. ‒ this resolution focuses on the need to accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy, particularly the need for greater simplification, the strengthening of administrative capacity and encouraging greater subdelegation to local and regional actors via new tools like integrated territorial investments and community-led local development. it also calls for greater flexibility in the use of the investment clause, which could allow some member states’ investments in development co-financed by the esif to be excluded from the calculation of national deficits. however, the resolution as a whole is still firmly couched in terms of advocating ‘structural reforms’, ‘investment-friendly policies’, and the use of a range of financial instruments as a precondition for meeting these growth and employment objectives. i therefore abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ this resolution contemplates the acceleration of the implementation of cohesion policy. in my view, the cohesion policy is a key plank of eu integration and the drive towards euro-federalism. whilst i would support genuine reform, i am far from convinced that genuine reform is on the table. indeed, it appears that the suggestion of reform in this report in fact implies even greater european union control. for these reasons i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because we feel eu regional funding is a propaganda tool and shamelessly wastes uk taxpayers’ money to fund it. the so-called ‘reforms’ are little more than eu attempts to cement control.
in writing. – we voted against this because we feel eu regional funding is a propaganda tool and shamelessly wastes uk taxpayers’ money to fund it. the so-called ‘reforms’ are little more than eu attempts to cement control.
in writing. ‒ i supported this oral question because i believe that it is important that process for absorbing regional development funds in the uk is simplified as much as possible, with many organisations in the uk stating that the process to access the funds is often highly complex and bureaucratic. ensuring that there is less red tape and better value for money in these programmes is important for helping groups which wish to access these funds, so that they are not entangled by a process which they often find too difficult and time-consuming to complete.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this resolution as the objectives of enhancing growth and job creation can be better achieved through a coherent interaction within the eu economic policy mix of structural reforms and growth enhancing investment, all supported and accelerated by cohesion policy investments. with a budget of over eur 350 billion until 2020, cohesion funds represent the main source of public investment for some regions across europe. it is concerning that the implementation of cohesion policy 2014-2020 has been significantly delayed and its operational programmes as well. with this vote, i hope that the commission will commit itself further to implement the cohesion policy more effectively.
in writing. – diane james mep voted against this because we feel eu regional funding is a propaganda tool and shamelessly wastes uk taxpayers’ money to fund it. the so-called ‘reforms’ are little more than eu attempts to cement control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as it calls on the commission and the member states to use the esi funds to their full potential and in line with the europe 2020 strategy, in order to enhance social and economic cohesion and reduce territorial disparities by enabling all regions to become more competitive and to facilitate investment.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because we feel eu regional funding is a propaganda tool and shamelessly wastes uk taxpayers’ money to fund it. the so-called ‘reforms’ are little more than eu attempts to cement control.
in writing. – we voted against this because we feel eu regional funding is a propaganda tool and shamelessly wastes uk taxpayers’ money to fund it. the so-called ‘reforms’ are little more than eu attempts to cement control.
in writing. ‒ with a budget of over eur 350 billion until 2020, cohesion funds represent the main source of public investment for some regions across europe. i have voted in favour of this resolution as the objectives of enhancing growth and job creation can be better achieved through a coherent interaction within the eu economic policy mix of structural reforms and growth enhancing investment, all supported and accelerated by cohesion policy investments. it is concerning that the implementation of cohesion policy 2014-2020 has been significantly delayed and its operational programmes as well. with this vote, i hope that the commission will commit itself further to implement the cohesion policy more effectively.
in writing. ‒ cutting red tape and ensuring added value in eu programmes is key to ensuring that taxpayers’ money is well spent. i therefore welcome this broad call for better regulation and simplification across all of the eu’s regional development funds and i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ my own region has recently experienced a very concrete example of the importance of eu assistance through regional funds. during december 2015 the uk was hit by the extra-tropical cyclone storm desmond, followed by storms eva and frank, causing severe flooding in the north of england and scotland well into january. extensive damage was caused to homes, communities, and businesses. following intense pressure from the labour party, the uk government eventually applied for eusf in february 2016, on the eve of the deadline. we are now waiting for the first payments to be made in order to support reconstruction and re-development of the affected communities. beyond this particular example, regular delays by the relevant authorities in implementing regional ‘operational programmes’, resulting in subsequent payment delays, are a barrier to the full implementation of the cohesion policy, which is so crucial for the sustainable development of eu regions. i therefore welcome this parliamentary question calling on the commission and member states to explore mechanisms to reduce administrative burdens and ensure a quick and efficient implementation of the cohesion policy, building on the lessons learned from the previous implementation period.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i want to say first of all to cecilia wikström that she has our group’s full support in what she has been saying on unaccompanied minors and i think we would also agree with a number of the other criticisms that have been made. i have worked on every dublin regulation that has been brought before this house; most of them have moved forward. i do not think this one is going to and i have to say i will try and keep my language parliamentary but it is going to be a real struggle. i understand that many ngos and experts have been in discussions with the commission and have basically been told that they need to ‘get real’; that they need to understand what is happening on the ground. these people do, and i think we have a duty to listen to them. unhcr, charter of fundamental rights, jesuit refugee service, numerous others – we should be listening to these people. i would agree with what we have been told: dublin does not work. we never thought it did. we would agree that it puts a huge responsibility on countries because of their geographical situation – that was always obvious, was it not? we also know that member states need to show solidarity. we heard this from malta many years ago; we are still waiting for it. dublin is only going to have a chance of working if we also take into account asylum seekers themselves, because if you are looking at secondary movement, you need to think why do people move? dublin fixes you; it gives you one chance. if that is going to be in a country where you think your claim will not be properly examined, where you will not be able to make the contacts with your community, use the language that you have to integrate as we want you to, would you not move? it is your one chance to actually develop your life in any sort of way. a key point that we made in the last dublin revision was that the thorough examination of your case was also a foundation of dublin. yet, when i look at some of the proposals here – for people who dare to cross a border – that is now being thrown out of the window and the court cases that decided that go along with it. i think there are some really big amendments that need to be made to this proposal.
mr president, i welcome the presence here today of the first vice-president and the commissioner, as well as the commission proposal to maintain the basic principles of dublin. this is essential if we are going to combat irregular economic migration, sending a strong signal to human traffickers and allowing us to grant asylum to the most vulnerable. as you are aware, my political group has always had serious reservations about a compulsory relocation scheme. it has had little success. rarely does forcing someone to do something result in improved relations between the parties and the payment system suggestion of a fine of eur 250 000 per individual who is not being relocated seems like a punishment for member states, rather than a credible alternative. i welcome the strengthening of important instruments such easo and eurodac. i believe that looking at how we can enhance what we already have, rather than reinventing the wheel, will always be the most effective way forward. but despite all this, my main message here today is a simple one. these revisions, these proposals, these enhancements will only work if we all stick to the rule book. commissioner, your institution is there to oversee compliance with the treaties and with our laws, and what i have seen over the last 12 months is member states believing they are all above the laws rather than pursuing the laws that they have negotiated and adopted. if we are creating real solidarity in a truly effective area of asylum, then the rules must be followed. this parliament must not just be a talking shop, but a venue for building credible and effective solutions to gain back the trust and the confidence of the electorate.
mr president, can i point out to this chamber that an isis-linked terror cell was unearthed after three men were arrested in italy only yesterday. the five suspects, including one who had been to london, had all been granted refugee status. they were free to take advantage of the eu’s internal borders, crossing between countries unchecked, just like the perpetrators of the paris and the brussels murders. the group had also photographed potential targets in london and one of the group was planning to move to calais, raising the prospect of either using that as a base or else to help others enter the uk. when will the eu learn and when will the uk government learn? of course we should give those in genuine need a safe haven using the geneva convention on refugees. but that is not what this eu asylum system is about: it is about forcing countries to take on people who could well be terrorists and fining them if they do not. it is about brussels forcing local services in britain to a breaking point rather than face opposition to their project in other countries with external borders. it is another example of why our membership of the eu makes britain less secure, and why we will be better out of the european union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – listen, i am not saying that i have not read the paper. i have read the paper. what i am saying is that fining will make absolutely no difference whatsoever to these people that are so determined to actually murder people.
mr president, in the wake of the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels it was understandable that national governments would reinstate border controls to increase security and try to monitor who was coming in and out of a country. an alleged plot was uncovered yesterday by italian police revealing that an isis-linked group was using migrant routes and open borders to plan terror attacks in britain, italy, france and belgium. just like this latest plot, the perpetrators of the paris and brussels murders crossed internal eu borders unchecked, including between france, belgium and hungary. some of them had even been to syria and returned. in calling for borders to once again become a terrorist’s dream, the eu has shown it puts its diehard dogma of a european superstate above the safety of the european people whom it is supposed to represent and who pay for it – in the case of britain, to the tune of gbp 8 billion net. and ‘die’ is a pertinent word, for the eu has blood on its hands. schengen is not only the free movement of people: it is also the free movement of terrorists and kalashnikovs. i question the principles of all those urging the uk to vote to remain in the eu. i also question the principles of those senior british military personnel who, like me, swore an oath of allegiance to her majesty the queen, but who have been telling voters we are safer in the eu. it is my sincere belief that the british people are safer outside of this leaking terrorist haven of a political union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i do agree with you, but as i say, to me this is a matter of safety and security for the people of europe. open borders is perpetuating the isis and the daesh to come into europe and kill and murder wholesale. we have to put back up the borders.
mr president, schengen is a failed project – i do not know why we are even discussing it. i really do not buy the economic argument; it is security that matters. what price do we put on our security? schengen’s open borders have allowed thousands of illegal migrants to camp at calais for onward illegal entry into the uk. the french authorities have even given them safe passage via trains to calais. dublin is being dumped, not because it did not work, but because the state has turned a blind eye. now nation states are putting up borders – borders work, that works. i was in calais again last week; five and a half thousand migrants are camped there, all waiting illegally to break into my country. i have been there quite a lot of times, i have spoken to the various nations represented there, and i have asked them: are you refugees? but they are not refugees, they are economic migrants. because i go there and ask them – i do not listen to the commission, i do not listen to the left and the human rights industry that are promoting this – i go there and listen to them myself. when i was there last week, they were deciding they were refugees because the human rights industry was telling them they were. real refugees do not pick and choose the borders where they want to stay. that is schengen. that is allowed, and that is why it has failed.
mr president, in its desperation to put in place at least one measure to tackle the ever-deepening migrant crisis, the european commission is willing to stoop to any depths. instead of scrapping the schengen agreement, reinstating proper border controls and putting in place measures to sort true asylum seekers from economic migrants, the commission is instead bowing to turkey’s demands for admission to the eu. this is despite the erdoğan regime being accused of a catalogue of human rights abuses: air strikes against kurds fighting daesh, a clampdown on the freedom of the press, and a highly controversial anti-terror policy. but any eu opposition to these totalitarian measures has crumbled in its haste to ease the migrant crisis while still maintaining schengen, despite these terrible acts being directly opposed to its own principles. the fact is, president erdoğan has realised he is now in a position to hold the entire block to ransom and make demands of the eu that even two years ago would have been unthinkable. and to understand just what a stranglehold erdoğan has achieved, consider his ‘we’re going our way, you go yours’ outburst in rejecting eu demands for changes to turkey’s anti-terror laws. this is a law that is more often than not used on opponents of erdoğan’s regime, yet it is a law that the commission has chosen to give way on as it pushes ahead with giving turkey visa-free eu travel as a reward for their cooperation. this once again demonstrates how the eu’s principles have the same attributes as toilet tissue: strong to start with, but simply dissolves when the right conditions are met. it seems to me that, as long as the eu gets to keep its core principles of free movement, they do not care how many other principles are cast aside.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this law requiring the automatic exchange of information about where companies make their money is a step towards transparency. in future, tax authorities will be able to see where companies earn money and create value and if they shift profits to avoid paying tax. but this is a long way short of the full public country-by-country reporting that we as greens have been calling for. we need this information to be publicly available and for all multinational companies, not just a few of the large ones. the eu can, and should, be a global leader in ambitious actions for tax justice. the leak of the panama papers exposed the extent of the network of tax havens and overseas territories that help wealthy people hide their money. the data make it clear that the uk is at the heart of the web of offshore tax havens. over half of the companies listed had been registered in the british virgin islands, and when you trace the people or companies behind these shell companies the uk itself ranks fifth for linked companies. david cameron has a real opportunity this week to demonstrate his commitment to tax transparency as he hosts the uk anti-corruption summit. he can put an end to shell companies by requiring british overseas territories to introduce a mandatory public register of beneficial ownership. this would be a real step towards ending tax havens and secrecy jurisdictions and i support the calls made this week by over 300 economists for this to happen. let us end tax havens once and for all.
mr president, if we are ever to tackle tax dodging, we have to close all the legal loopholes across all our pieces of legislation, so i like to start by congratulating mr rosati on his report. i do believe it is a step in the right direction, although i would have liked you to have gone further to make sure that more companies are required to submit these country—by—country reports. i think it is also important that the amendment by the s&d shadow rapporteur to ensure that companies submit these reports is fully supported. in the interest of tax transparencies, these reports really need to be made public as well. mr president, the progressive members in this house fully understand the importance of country—by—country reporting as a tool to tackle fraud. tomorrow, the uk prime minister is organising an important summit on tackling corruption and tax evasion. i welcome this initiative, and hope that his tory colleagues in this house will be consistent with their government and their leader and vote for the first time in favour of country—by—country reporting to shine more light on a murky world of tax avoidance and evasion. at the same time, we need the council to really pay attention to the opinions of the european parliament on these tax matters. together, we can tackle tax invasion in a proper way.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we need to talk first of all about what we mean by sustainability. in my book, it is something which is capable of lasting, therefore the issue of ecological transition that was raised by our committee president is extremely important in this; otherwise, we basically use up what we need to sustain ourselves. i think we also need to be questioning whether the goal is growth or whether growth is a mechanism for something else. what we are really talking about here is decent life on a finite planet, so we need to consider how we are going to do that. we heard from the commission that the investment plan is going to reach all walks of life. i would like to ask: how do we know that this is going to happen? how is this going to be directed? how is this going to be measured? i represent london – not the city, the financial part, but london as a whole – which is a city of massive inequality. one in five earns less than the necessary living wage to live in london, 50% of the self-employed are low paid, we have an enormous wealth concentration at the top, and the bottom 10% are basically in a debt economy. the oecd talks about wealth concentration as being a barrier to investment. so how can the european union take steps on the issues about reducing the inequalities, not only by raising the bottom end, but also by reigning in the massive growth that is happening at the top end for the few?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it really is disappointing, to say the least, that we are discussing the issue of country of origin labelling yet again following a lack of action by the commission. in 2011 when we dealt with the food information regulation parliament voted for mandatory country of origin labelling for meat and dairy products. last year this parliament adopted a resolution calling for the mandatory country of origin labelling for all meat in processed food. yet still the commission says that voluntary labelling is enough. well, it clearly is not enough because we know that consumers want this labelling. 84% of consumers support origin labelling for milk and 90% would like to see this labelling for meat in processed food. it is also supported by farmers and consumer organisations across europe and actually the cost is really quite minimal. at least member states are now waking up to this demand, with france bringing in legislation for origin labelling for milk and for meat in processed food. italy and portugal are also considering similar legislation. so it seems as if everyone wants this labelling except for the commission. this is about clear, honest labelling which does not mislead consumers. it would allow consumers to make informed decisions about the food they buy for a variety of reasons: environmental, animal welfare and, yes, to support their local farmers if that is what they want to do. it should be their choice. it would also be positive for the food industry and would help restore consumer confidence, which has been very badly damaged in recent times. so i hope meps will support this resolution and i hope the commission will finally listen to parliament and, more importantly, finally listen to consumers and at last come forward with legislation to ensure that consumers know where their food comes from.
madam president, consumers are giving a very clear message: they want to know where their food comes from. country of origin labelling does not only benefit consumers, it can be an opportunity for food producers as well. but i do understand the commission’s concerns; country of origin labelling will increase the regulatory burden, it will add cost which will have to be passed onto the consumer, and in multi-ingredient products it will prove to be impractical to reinforce. however, in the case of processed meat and dairy products, for example yogurts and sausages, there already is a very high level of voluntary declaration and this is a cost that consumers are prepared to pay. so, in the interests of fairness and consistency, i urge the commission to bring forward proposals for mandatory country of origin labelling for all lightly processed products.
mr president, labelling processed meat and dairy products with the country of processing, but not of production, is both misleading to consumers and unfair to farmers. to say mandatory labelling challenges competition ignores the fact that british farmers face unfair competition from wrongly labelled products, according to the fsa, amounting to gbp seven billion of lost income last year, or 10% of the food on british shelves. i was proud to launch the red tractor mark in east anglia and my constituent, who is its vice-chair, a farmer on the norfolk/suffolk border, believes that he and other farmers are undermined by the current voluntary scheme. instead, the commission should be helping to tackle this food fraud, supporting the new environmental technologies to test food authenticity, such those developed by the university of east anglia, and like the former labour government in my own country, which backed local food hubs in ongar in essex, and woburn in bedfordshire, also in my constituency, the commission should recognise the environmental benefit of local purchasing. the time for mandatory labelling is now: for consumers, for farmers, and for the planet.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i have often argued in this chamber against wind and solar power, so it is refreshing to find a renewable technology which i can support wholeheartedly. hydro is predictable. it is reliable. it is controllable. it is affordable. it takes relatively little maintenance, and it operates without subsidies. in fact, in every respect, it is the polar opposite of the solar and wind that we have wasted vast resources on in recent years, driving up energy prices and forcing energy—intensive businesses to move out of the european union altogether. the problem, of course, is that availability of hydropower is restricted by the availability of suitable locations and suitable topography. we are now facing calls for the harmonisation of rules for licensing hydropower projects. we, in my party, will oppose any such moves for european harmonisation. hydro resources in my country, the uk, are a national asset and we will take a very dim view of attempts to control these assets from brussels.
mr president, i am addressing myself to colleagues but also to working people in the uk, which of course is most people. the overwhelming majority of people work. according to the target, it is supposed to be 75%. in fact, in the uk, it is 79% of men and 69% of women. why is that? it is partly because these measures, such as they are, such as exist already, do not work properly. the rights that people in the uk have to date they have got partly through this place, through these institutions, and partly through the trade unions having sued the labour government almost 20 years ago now. i ask people in the uk: if it took trade unions to sue a labour government, what is the chance that we will get the kind of rights that people need – separate parental leave so that more than one percent of men can afford to stay at home – what is the chance that we will get that from the tory government? the answer is none. we will only get these rights from here.
rapporteur. – mr president, this debate must focus on the victims – people taken from their homes, forced or deceived into exploitative, demeaning and often dangerous situations, at risk of violence, abused, and too often arrested for crimes that they have been coerced into committing. the most marginal in our communities are the most vulnerable to exploitation. imagine a young eastern european woman: smart and ambitious, seeking a good life with opportunities, she meets a young man and falls in love with him and his promises of a good life together. she follows him to london, only to find that he has brought her to a brothel. her passport and personal possessions are taken, she is pushed into a bedroom with no sheets on the bed, and she is beaten if she refuses any client that is brought to her. she is too brutalised to make any decision about escape or where to seek for help. her boyfriend has deserted her, probably recruiting other victims. other girls in the brothel like her: young, scared, beaten, raped and isolated. the men who come to the brothel don’t ask questions, not concerned about the bruises or the fact that she can’t speak the language. the eu trafficking legislation is now 5 years old. it is an excellent framework for the protection of victims and is a great example of how eu countries can come together to address issues that can’t be tackled alone. but many countries are slow in implementing this. they, and we, are failing the victims across europe. victims experience terrible brutality and suffer many long—term physical, mental and emotional effects. i’m confirming the need that victims are properly provided for, with healthcare, accommodation, material assistance and legal support. this legal support should include claiming compensation, which victims are entitled to but very rarely get. legal support should be available and free of charge. victims who have been exploited are in no position to pay for that help. i’m also calling for an extension of the 30—day minimum recovery and reflection period, particularly for victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation. the effects of this form of trafficking demand specialist support over a very long period. in the uk we have 45 days, but even this is a short time for survivors who have been repeatedly raped over many months. we owe them more than just this month of recovery. professionals need to be trained to spot trafficked people. this is clearly failing now. this includes front—line law—enforcement and border staff, judges, magistrates, healthcare professionals, counsellors, teachers and others. sadly, we will never know how many victims are not found. we must also step up awareness campaigns for groups vulnerable to the traffickers, as well as the wider public, to help them spot the signs of trafficking. trafficking in human beings is happening where you all live. open your eyes to the signs of trafficking. we should suspect trafficking when we spot sleeping bags in restaurant kitchens, or factory workers working long hours in poor conditions. it’s in the porn movies and the brothels where the girls can’t speak the local language and never leave to go to the shops. the directive asked member states to consider criminalising the knowing use of services of trafficked people. to me, it’s scandalous that this is not already a crime. where else is it acceptable for someone to knowingly engage in an illegal act but not be prosecuted for it? i am pleased that i have been able to work on this report and to play my part in stamping out this vile crime. i look forward to listening to the coming debate.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this report is very timely. as more and more refugees and asylum seekers come to europe, so more are vulnerable to trafficking, and we in this parliament and the european union have to take a two—pronged approach to the terrible issue of human trafficking. first of all, zero tolerance: we will not tolerate human trafficking in any form at all, whether it is women and girls – who are by far the majority of victims – or other human beings who are trafficked for labour exploitation and other forms of exploitation. as part of the two-pronged strategy, we also need to focus on victims, and that is difficult. most of the victims, as has already been said, are vulnerable women who have been trafficked away from where they came from and who face appalling abuse. but we need to make sure that we and the member states provide adequate services for them so that they can come forward. we should do this because we should do it, but we should also do it because victims can play a key role in identifying traffickers and making sure that those traffickers – the majority of whom, interestingly, are men – can be prosecuted and convicted, because unless we address this, we will not wipe out trafficking. we also need to make it a criminal offence across all eu countries to employ the sexual services of, and to use, somebody who has been trafficked.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, eurostat says that between 2010 and 2012 over 30 000 people were victims of trafficking. according to europol over 10 000 migrant children are missing in europe. the uk’s national crime agency reported that 3 309 people were potential victims of trafficking for exploitation in 2014, an increase of 21%. why are we seeing this modern day form of slavery on the rise? well, a uk government report in 2014 said free movement within the eu is extensively exploited by organised criminals to bring human trafficking victims to the united kingdom, and in 2013 europol even admitted that the free movement of people reduces the chance of detection of such crimes. so even the eu’s agencies and cheerleaders say that free movement is the big problem. the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking to flourish. i am sure business for criminals could not be better with the open door european leaders gave in response to the migrant crisis, once in europe, and the free movement of people. by encouraging millions of people to come to europe you are playing into the hands of the traffickers, both within and outside europe. whether it is individuals paying criminals to get them into europe or families sending off their children for the hope of a better life, the eu has put hundreds of thousands at risk of exploitation and endangered lives by encouraging an exodus across the dangerous mediterranean sea. but not satisfied with that, you want turkey to join the eu and to liberalise visas. opening the door to a country like turkey, giving 70 million people access to the uk and europe, will without doubt increase trafficking. there is a simple way to deal a blow to traffickers. it is to end the free movement of people, close down the schengen area and stop open door immigration. it is for member states to take back sensible control of their national borders and to conduct criminal background checks. if you want to deal a blow to trafficking, if you want to protect innocent victims, if you want to save lives and to gain a sensible ethical control of the united kingdom borders, then the only way, i am afraid, is to vote to leave the european union on 23rd june.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her commitment to this issue and it is very good to hear that germany is now coming on board. i would also like to thank my colleagues and the shadows, and the secretariat of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) and alde, for all their support and work on this, including those in my own office. just a few points. prostitution: not all those in prostitution have been trafficked and controlling prostitution is not an eu competence. it has been a very fine line to talk about this in the report, but it is part of the market demand and so that is how it has been addressed. surrogacy is not trafficking. forced surrogacy is a crime in anybody’s language and also needs to be tackled. migrants: migrants are not always victims of trafficking but their vulnerability and the lack of care that we are affording them make them very easy prey for the traffickers. organised crime: yes, this is the fourth largest organised crime. it is much easier to traffic human beings than it is drugs. police dogs do not smell out trafficked people and for the lady who said that we should get out because it is free movement of people that causes it, the uk is not in schengen and yet it is still one of europe’s biggest markets for trafficking people. traffickers do not care what sort of border control is there; they will work a way around it. we have all to be vigilant on this issue. i look forward to building on the progress that has been achieved by the office of the anti-trafficking coordinator, madam vassiliadou, and for all those who tonight and for the next who knows how long, face heaven knows what, we need all of us to be committed and vigilant and to work to make sure that we catch the traffickers and rescue those who are held in in slavery.
author. – madam president, crimea, and more widely, the situation in occupied eastern ukraine must not be allowed to fall into the realms of frozen conflicts. the eu and member states must keep up the pressure and remain resolved in applying the sanctions against russia over the annexation of crimea. beyond the geostrategic picture, however, are the people living in crimea: minority communities are facing persecution, including notably the crimean tatars and ethnic ukrainians. already 20 000 have fled to mainland ukraine and the object of the current policy is to force the rest of the tatar population to do the same; the 21st century version of the forced deportation in 1944 under stalin. the eu and member states must remain vigilant to these issues and we must encourage turkey to be as strong in defending their ethnic kinsmen in crimea as they are in defending their ethnic kinsmen, the turkmen, in syria. forced territorial annexation of territory at the point of a gun is totally unacceptable in the modern world.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the decision to suspend the mejlis in crimea is quite simply a breach of the right to freedom of association, and it follows the enforced disappearance of at least six crimean tatars and the forcible detention of tatars in pionerske, with the taking of fingerprints and dna. this represents a new wave of repression against the crimean tatar people since the russian annexation, and it has an historic echo four decades after their entire population was deported to remote parts of the then soviet union. my group draws attention to the long-standing discrimination against tatars, documented by the unrepresented nations and peoples organisation (unpo). we remain convinced that we should diplomatically engage with russia and we believe tatars should be protected under the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. on behalf of the foreign affairs committee, i met, in kyiv, refat chubarov, one of the two banned tatar leaders who continue to campaign for their people from outside crimea. we told them we would not forget them, and today we remind the whole of europe of their plight.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, a number of gambians live in my constituency, forced out of their country by the appalling regime that exists there. it is not widely realised, but gambia creates more migrants per capita than any other country in the world, including syria. that is how desperate the situation is in the country. we do not notice it because gambia is such a small country, and so in absolute numbers it is small, but relative to the population it is enormous. we have to do more as a european union. like other speakers, i welcome the fact that we withdrew gbp 13 million worth of aid in 2014, but we now need an article 96 consultation and we have to send a clear message to the gambians that if they do not release the april activists who were arrested for peacefully demonstrating, if they do not stop arbitrary detention, and if the police and the national intelligence agency do not bring to an end their brutality and torture, the european union would consider cutting all relations with them. we have to send a very, very clear message. this is a brutal regime and it needs a brutal response.
madam president, i too am deeply alarmed by the situation in gambia, where last month peaceful protesters were brutally arrested, with reports of torture, and one opposition activist, solo sandeng, has died in custody. all of this, as we have heard, is happening against a backdrop of grave harassment of human rights defenders, journalists and lgbti people. the eu was right in its action when it blocked some eur 8 million in aid because of the poor human rights record and anti—gay legislation, but what this has led to is the gambian authorities expelling our representatives, and it means that ties are cut. therefore, i think it is really important that we continue to support those who are taking the lead in standing up for reform, but we also need to work closely with the african union on this. i am also concerned about the implications for elections in december: against this backdrop, can they really be free and fair? so we have to urge the government of gambia to ratify the african charter on democracy ... (the president cut off the speaker)
author. – madam president, as somalia continues to battle against piracy and jihadist insurgency and eritrea nears the 30-year mark of the barbarous regime under isaias afwerki, djibouti sadly completes its tale of tragedy in the horn of africa. with president guelleh winning his fourth mandate last month with an implausible 87% share of the popular vote, hopes of reform seem very unlikely under his authoritarian regime. only last year, we saw the police raid of opposition leader ahmed houmed, who was hospitalised alongside his party’s secretary-general in the ensuing police shootout. the massacre at buldhuquo, in which government forces killed 37 people on the same day, is another great tragedy and blight on the record of the government of djibouti. such incidents only attest to the brutal culture of repression against human rights activists, journalists and the political opposition of djibouti. we in the european union must put more pressure on the government of djibouti to implement the framework on political reform signed in 2015 as a starting point for the future and improvement in human rights in that small country.
in writing. ‒ the eu is an unnecessary layer of bureaucracy in the collection and dissemination of tax information, ukip accordingly voted against.
in writing. – the eu is an unnecessary layer of bureaucracy in the collection and dissemination of tax information, ukip accordingly voted against.
in writing. ‒ the eu is an unnecessary layer of bureaucracy in the collection and dissemination of tax information, ukip accordingly voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recent revision of the administrative cooperation directive (dac 4). the directive encourages better cooperation between tax administrations in the eu and will ensure that tax authorities have the necessary information to act in a coordinated manner to fight against tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for country-by-country reporting. if we are ever to tackle tax dodging it is vital that we make companies report exactly where they make their money and where they pay their taxes. the commission’s proposal is a step in the right direction, although it still does not go far enough: many more companies should be required to submit these reports and the reports should be made public. only then will we have true tax transparency. while labour meps have consistently voted in favour of increased transparency, it is lamentable that conservative meps have talked a good game but when it comes to the crunch have consistently voted against any attempts to shine more light on the murky world of tax avoidance and evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal. this proposal calls for country-by-country reporting, which i believe is vital. it is vital because, if we are to ever tackle tax dodging, we need to make companies report exactly where they are making their money and where they are paying their taxes. the commission’s proposal is a step in the right direction, in my view, although it – as is often the case – does not go far enough. much more can be done, such as expanding the number of companies that should be required to submit such reports, and such reports need to be made public. it is a shame that the tories do not understand this and have consistently voted against any attempts to shine more light on the murky world that is tax evasion and tax avoidance.
in writing. – the eu is an unnecessary layer of bureaucracy in the collection and dissemination of tax information, diane james mep accordingly voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for country-by-country reporting because i believe that it is vital, if we are ever to tackle tax dodging, that we make companies report exactly where they make their money and where they pay their taxes. the commission’s proposal is a step in the right direction, although it still does not go far enough: many more companies should be required to submit these reports, and the reports should be made public, if we are to have true tax transparency. the labour party understands that; it is just a shame that the tories do not and have consistently voted against any attempts to shine more light on the murky world of tax avoidance and evasion.
in writing. ‒ the eu is an unnecessary layer of bureaucracy in the collection and dissemination of tax information, ukip accordingly voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal. this proposal calls for country-by-country reporting, which i believe is vital. it is vital because, if we are to ever tackle tax dodging, we need to make companies report exactly where they are making their money and where they are paying their taxes. the commission’s proposal is a step in the right direction, in my view, although it – as is often the case – does not go far enough. much more can be done, such as expanding the number of companies that should be required to submit such reports, and such reports need to be made public. it is a shame that the tories do not understand this and have consistently voted against any attempts to shine more light on the murky world that is tax evasion and tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for country-by-country reporting because i believe that it is vital, if we are ever to tackle tax dodging, that we make companies report exactly where they make their money and where they pay their taxes. the commission’s proposal is a step in the right direction, although it still does not go far enough: many more companies should be required to submit these reports, and the reports should be made public, if we are to have true tax transparency. the labour party understands that; it is just a shame that the tories do not, and have consistently voted against any attempts to shine more light on the murky world of tax avoidance and evasion.
in writing. ‒ i and the ecr group voted in favour of the recent revision of the administrative cooperation directive (dac 4). the dac4 covers all the necessary procedures for better cooperation between tax administrations in the european union – such as exchanges of information on request; spontaneous exchanges; automatic exchanges; participation in administrative enquiries; simultaneous controls; and notifications to each other of tax decisions. it also provided for the necessary practical tools, such as a secure electronic system for the information exchange. this will ensure that tax authorities have the necessary information to act in a coordinated manner to fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. this directive must be treated separately to the recently released proposal by the commission on the accounting directive that introduces country-by-country reporting by large multinational entities to the public. the contents of the dac4 and the level of granularity in the exchanges of information has been agreed internationally, therefore i do not support the amendments that have deviated from this international agreement, which would attempt to implement public country-by-country reporting via tax authorities instead of directly by the companies concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for country-by-country reporting because i believe that it is vital, if we are ever to tackle tax dodging, that we make companies report exactly where they make their money and where they pay their taxes. the commission’s proposal is a step in the right direction, although it still does not go far enough: many more companies should be required to submit these reports, and the reports should be made public, if we are to have true tax transparency. as labour meps we understand the importance of tax transparency; it is a shame that the tories do not share our values, and have consistently voted against any attempts to shine more light on the murky world of tax avoidance and evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for country-by-country reporting because i believe that it is vital, if we are ever to tackle tax dodging, that we make companies report exactly where they make their money and where they pay their taxes. the commission’s proposal is a step in the right direction, although it still does not go far enough: many more companies should be required to submit these reports, and the reports should be made public, if we are to have true tax transparency.
in writing. ‒ this was a very important resolution which i voted in favour of and which aims to challenge ‘food fraud’. i have actively worked on the issue of food fraud in my capacity as an mep since 2013. this resolution will benefit both consumers and fishing communities across ireland. it highlights the importance of traceability through all stages of production, processing and distribution and proper legal labelling. this is of particular importance as my country is an island and the fishing industry is a key industry. in recent years, there has been a proliferation of seafood which has been unlabelled or mislabelled. this threatens the livelihoods of fishermen and seafood traders and it facilitates illegal and unregulated fishing practices. it is also clearly not in consumers’ interests. it threatens the livelihoods of fishermen and seafood traders and it facilitates illegal and unregulated fishing practices. moreover, it is also not in the consumers’ interests. sinn fein will continue to ensure that criminal activity in the food processing industry is combatted.
in writing. ‒ this appears innocuous and even helpful to the consumer and it does offer some benefits. however the bureaucracy and record-keeping potentially involved is disproportionate and it probably represents a massive additional intrusion by officials into restaurants, cafes, supermarkets, shops and market stalls. they cannot be trusted to keep it proportionate – they constantly crack nuts with sledgehammers – and it also represents in consequence, a further power grab.
in writing. ‒ i can support this because it is vital consumers are able to make informed decisions when buying fish and aquaculture products. this is important both for those who buy the products and also for fishermen themselves, who want the fish they catch to be correctly labelled, so that they are not unfairly hindered by the mislabelling of cheaper alternatives. legislation already exists for member states themselves to ensure that there is a robust control of fish and aquaculture products and they therefore have a responsibility to enforce quality control checks. i note caution on the call for the commission to examine the feasibility of an eco-label scheme for fishery and aquaculture products, something which could add additional and unnecessary red-tape burdens for fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. fraudulent mislabelling constitutes a clear breach of common fisheries policy rules. it misleads consumers, represents a threat to marine resources as well as consumer health, disadvantages honest producers and distorts (fair) competition. the commission and the member states are urged to act decisively to improve information, traceability and controls, not least in the interest of consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. fraudulent mislabelling constitutes a clear breach of common fisheries policy rules. it misleads consumers, represents a threat to marine resources as well as consumer health, disadvantages honest producers and distorts (fair) competition. the commission and the member states are urged to act decisively to improve information, traceability and controls, not least in the interest of consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion which wants to improve the traceability of products derived from fisheries and aquaculture in restaurants and retail. all too often we see fraudulent mislabelling; this constitutes a clear breach of cfp rules. it misleads consumers, represents a threat to marine resources as well as consumer health, disadvantages honest producers and distorts competition. i’m joining the voices from this place to call on the european commission and the member states to act decisively and improve controls, traceability and distribution of information on these products – not least in the interest of consumer protection, but it also goes some way to protect the credibility of the fisheries industry as well as the catering industries which buy such products.
madam president, trouble has been looming for 15 years and for 15 years our governments did nothing. now we are being put under pressure to decide whether the eu should grant china market economy status in december, risking the tools we currently have to deal with chinese trade dumping. the situation in the steel, ceramics, and other manufacturing industries demonstrates that these tools are not sufficient today to fully protect jobs and businesses against unfair competition. we need the long-overdue reform of eu trade defence instruments. the commission proposed it, parliament amended and adopted it. we now need trade ministers to do their part and to stop blocking it. tomorrow they have an opportunity to make a key decision for our manufacturing industries. on their side, china must deal with their massive overcapacity; without real reforms in china there cannot be any recognition of what would really be a fictional market economy status. i supported today’s resolution for these reasons.
madam president, today’s vote gives a clear signal that firm action must be taken against practices that are far removed from the fair competition and open trade that this house should champion. steel dumping has damaged our industry unfairly and if china wants to be regarded as a reliable and trusted partner on equal terms with us, it must act like one. the real question though is: why has the commission seemingly been sitting on its hands, doing nothing to anticipate a situation that has been 15 years in the making? where is the reform on trade defence instruments, for instance? a potential turning point in global trade is just a few months away and we have no idea how the commission will tackle a situation that could cause irreversible damage to our industry and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the efdd resolution on this issue, but could not support giving china market economy status. to put it bluntly, china is not a market economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as though i will support the commission in ensuring continued compliance with wto law, i oppose any proposal that will change eu anti-dumping law to the detriment of the eu’s ability to tackle anti-competitive market practices which in turn may injure eu industry, such as steel in the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution calling on the commission and the council not to grant market economy status to china until the chinese economy is one where supply, demand and prices of goods and services are determined by the market. china is not a market economy and should not be recognised as one when calculating anti-dumping sanctions. granting them market economy status in the current circumstances would tighten the noose around the uk steel industry’s neck. we urgently need to modernise our trade defence measures and should not be afraid to use all the tools at our disposal to protect european industries against dumping and other harmful trade practices. the british government must realise that the current crisis is linked to their inaction at eu level. the commission and governments must listen and act, and do so now, while we still have a steel industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution calling on the commission and the council not to grant market economy status to china until the chinese economy is one where supply, demand and prices of goods and services are determined by the market. china is not a market economy and should not be recognised as one when calculating anti-dumping sanctions. granting them market economy status in the current circumstances would tighten the noose around the uk steel industry’s neck. we urgently need to modernise our trade defence measures and should not be afraid to use all the tools at our disposal to protect european industries against dumping and other harmful trade practices. the british government must realise that the current crisis is linked to their inaction at eu level. the commission and governments must listen and act, and do so now, while we still have a steel industry.
in writing. ‒ i have been extremely concerned about the granting to china of market economy status since the protocol of accession to the world trade organisation by china which, upon expiry at the end of this year, has the potential to grant china market economy status. i would argue that this is a misinterpretation of section 15 of the wto protocol, as china must first meet all five of the eu’s criteria to qualify as a market economy, which it has not done. hence, i oppose and will oppose any unilateral concession of market economy status to china, not least until it has fulfilled its obligations to meet the five criteria laid out in the wto protocol of accession. we must have a coordinated strategy with our major trading partners and we need to use special rules in anti-dumping cases until china becomes a genuine market economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, which stresses that the five criteria established by the eu to define market economies have not yet been fulfilled by china and that, until china meets all these criteria, the eu should use a non-standard methodology in anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations into chinese imports in determining price comparability. china’s overcapacity has impacted hard on our industries in recent months and has had a particularly detrimental impact on the steel industry in my constituency. it is therefore vital that the eu retains the full and continued ability to take timely, necessary and effective measures to tackle anti-competitive market practices.
in writing. ‒ led by labour and social democratic colleagues, the european parliament has clearly indicated that it will not allow the granting of market economy status to china as things stand. despite its transformation in the last 15 years, china simply is not yet a market economy, and in the eu we must not expose our industries to unfair competition. instead, we must modernise our trade defences. being a part of the eu, the largest economy in the world, allows the uk to contend with china on an equal basis, and gives us the tools to protect our industries, together with our european colleagues. outside the eu, uk industries would be much more open to be undercut on the world stage, and our government more likely to be negotiated into a corner by giant players like china. the eu has the power and potential to forge a fairer and more equitable world trade system, which puts planet and people before profit. working together with progressives from across europe, i will continue to advocate and work towards that goal. the uk must lead that development from within the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report primarily due to the fact that we do not believe should the eu should have the right to any foreign intervention. any agenda associated with development should the prerogative of the member state.
in writing. ‒ whilst i am, of course, hugely sympathetic towards the situation in developing nations, the eu strategies in this regard have often proved counterproductive. this should be a matter for the uk government.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report primarily due to the fact that we do not believe should the eu should have the right to any foreign intervention. any agenda associated with development should the prerogative of the member state.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report primarily due to the fact that we do not believe should the eu should have the right to any foreign intervention. any agenda associated with development should the prerogative of the member state.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, the uk being one of the largest funding donors for international development projects in the world. the uk at national level is currently reviewing how the sustainable development goals will be implemented, with a focus on ensuring that value for money is given for the uk taxpayer and that aid given is provided effectively and in the right areas.
in writing. – diane james mep and fellow ukip voted against this report primarily due to the fact that we do not believe should the eu should have the right to any foreign intervention. any agenda associated with development should the prerogative of the member state.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report primarily due to the fact that we do not believe should the eu should have the right to any foreign intervention. any agenda associated with development should the prerogative of the member state.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this resolution’s call to integrate the economic, social and environmental pillars of sustainable development. whenever these perspectives are separated and there are policy inconsistencies and incoherence, it is the most vulnerable who suffer. international efforts to develop better indicators and data collection tools are key to progress and to improve decision-making. it is only when we have gender-sensitive data that we can truly see the scale of gender inequalities, and take action to close gaps. it is disappointing that among the 169 different sdg targets, only five address youth and young people. sustainability is all about the future, and handing over a better world to the next generation, to the youth. decision-makers and elected representatives, including myself, must work together with youth organisations and civil society in order to ensure that young people are firmly at the centre of international sustainable development strategy and the implementation of the sdgs.
madam president, i support mandatory country of origin labelling on processed meats and milk because, after numerous food scandals, consumers are demanding that they have the choice and that they know what is in their produce. in recent polling, 90% of those surveyed said that they wanted mandatory country of origin labelling for processed meat, and 84% wanted mandatory country of origin labelling for milk. some have suggested that if this was put in place it would support local producers and local farmers and ensure that people knew what they were eating. therefore i call on the commission to support us in our calls for mandatory labelling, in particular on processed meats and milk produce.
madam president, today i voted in favour of the country of origin labelling resolution, along with my fellow conservative meps, and i am very pleased to see it passed. the yorkshire post in my constituency has been campaigning to address the current situation whereby dairy products made with foreign milk can be labelled as british. consumers want to support our dairy farmers but they can only do that if food is clearly labelled and after today’s vote the commission must sit up and react. this vote is good news for consumers, for our dairy sector and a real boost for the ‘clearly british’ campaign.
in writing. ‒ ukip supports country of origin labelling to help producers selling their goods and for consumers to know with certainty where their food is coming from. we believe in the importance of defending the interests of farmers and consumers, whilst preventing large retailers from confusing buyers. we have abstained on the final vote because, as much as we agree with the desirability of mandatory country of origin labelling, this should be a matter for member states to determine alone.
in writing. ‒ ukip supports country of origin labelling to help producers selling their goods and for consumers to know with certainty where their food is coming from. we believe in the importance of defending the interests of farmers and consumers, whilst preventing large retailers confusing buyers. we abstained on the final vote because, as much as we agree with the desirability of mandatory country of origin labelling, this should be a matter for member states to determine alone. we want the uk parliament, not the unelected eu commission to legislate on this matter.
in writing. ‒ ukip supports country of origin labelling to help producers selling their goods and for consumers to know with certainty where their food is coming from. we believe in the importance of defending the interests of farmers and consumers, whilst preventing large retailers from confusing buyers. we have abstained on the final vote because, as much as we agree with the desirability of mandatory country of origin labelling, this should be a matter for member states to determine alone.
in writing. – ukip supports country of origin labelling to help producers selling their goods and for consumers to know with certainty where their food is coming from. we believe in the importance of defending the interests of farmers and consumers, whilst preventing large retailers from confusing buyers. we have abstained on the final vote because, as much as we agree with the desirability of mandatory country of origin labelling, this should be a matter for member states to determine alone.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which extends mandatory country of origin labelling, without requiring any additional legislation. although country of origin labelling helps provide consumers with more information, in many cases this is done by producers voluntarily and it is my view that any such rules on labelling should be done in the least administratively burdensome way possible.
in writing. ‒ consumers have a right to know where their food comes from. my labour colleagues and i are calling for clear, honest labelling to enable consumers to make informed choices without being misled – and hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i support mandatory country of origin labelling on processed meats and milk because, after numerous food scandals, consumers are demanding that they have the choice and that they know what is in their produce. in recent polling, 90% of those surveyed said that they wanted mandatory country of origin labelling for processed meat, and 84% wanted mandatory country of origin labelling for milk. some have suggested that if this was put in place it would support local producers and local farmers and ensure that people knew what they were eating.
in writing. – ukip supports country of origin labelling to help producers selling their goods and for consumers to know with certainty where their food is coming from. we believe in the importance of defending the interests of farmers and consumers, whilst preventing large retailers from confusing buyers. we have abstained on the final vote because, as much as we agree with the desirability of mandatory country of origin labelling, this should be a matter for member states to determine alone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. labour meps believe consumers have a right to know where their food comes from. we are calling for clear, honest labelling to enable consumers to make informed choices without being misled.
in writing. ‒ ukip supports country of origin labelling to help producers selling their goods and for consumers to know with certainty where their food is coming from. we believe in the importance of defending the interests of farmers and consumers, whilst preventing large retailers from confusing buyers. we have abstained on the final vote because, as much as we agree with the desirability of mandatory country of origin labelling, this should be a matter for member states to determine alone.
in writing. ‒ i support honest food labelling and i support this motion for a resolution which calls for exactly this. consumers should have the right and ability to know where their food has come from.
in writing. ‒ labour meps believe consumers have a right to know where their food comes from. we are calling for clear, honest labelling to enable consumers to make informed choices without being misled. the eu consistently places high health and safety standards on food production. exiting the eu could put british citizens at risk through deregulation and lower standards.
in writing. ‒ i co-authored and voted for this report, because labour meps believe consumers have a right to know where their food comes from. we are calling for clear, honest labelling to enable consumers to make informed choices without being misled.
madam president, i welcomed the report today that was debated and voted upon on parental leave. mums and dads across the european union want to spend quality time with their children, in particular in those early days when a child comes into a family home, and i support calls for the paternity leave to be a minimum of two weeks across the 28 member states. in the uk that has already happened; it was my party that wanted it extended to four weeks. but 40% of fathers in the uk do not take extra leave and in the eu as a whole only 10% of fathers take one extra day of parental leave, whilst 97% of mums take the most leave that they possibly can take. therefore this debate today is a question of equality and a question of fairness as well. so we have the opportunity of making sure that parental leave is put on the political agenda and of extending paternity leave across the 28 member states to a minimum of two weeks.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course is in favour paternity rights and leave, but we cannot support calls for more eu legislation and interference on this subject. only our elected and accountable national government should decide the terms of parental leave, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels whose policies and laws are not accountable to the voters.
in writing. ‒ whilst this report makes many valid points, maternity/paternity leave should be a uk government power, not for the eu to determine. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course is in favour paternity rights and leave, but we cannot support calls for more eu legislation and interference on this subject. only our elected and accountable national government should decide the terms of parental leave, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels whose policies and laws are not accountable to the voters.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course is in favour paternity rights and leave, but we cannot support calls for more eu legislation and interference on this subject. only our elected and accountable national government should decide the terms of parental leave, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels whose policies and laws are not accountable to the voters.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the provision that social and employment legislation is firmly a national competency. the uk itself has recently introduced a generous paternity leave arrangement and such matters should be dealt with at the national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this initiative report as i believe that the provision of social and employment legislation is a member state competence unless there is a clear and justified reason for eu level action. though i agree with the exchange of best practice, i do not see the added value in the legislative proposals that were recommended in this report. as of april 2015 the uk has implemented new reforms for a shared parental leave scheme and allows working couples to share untaken maternity leave and pay. having this legislation decided on a national level allowed for an approach that is tailored to the uk labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because the directive, of which the report calls for the implementation, needs to be transposed. it is a much needed update to parental leave legislation which better reflects the position of women in today’s labour market. it also serves as a great example of how our membership of the eu provides much needed support for parents that would not be provided by the conservative government. the antiquated view that bringing up children should be the sole responsibility of mothers is holding back progress for gender equality. in addition, full implementation of this directive would give hundreds of thousands of fathers the ability to spend quality time with their new children after birth. the labour party believes that everyone, regardless of the employment sector they work in, the type of contract they have, or the gender that they or their partner are, should be guaranteed the right to parental leave without discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a much needed update to parental leave legislation. the full implementation of this directive would give hundreds of thousands of fathers the ability to spend quality time with their new children after birth. the labour party believes that everyone, regardless of the employment sector they work in, the type of contract they have, or the gender that they or their partner are, should be guaranteed the right to parental leave without discrimination.
in writing. – diane james mep and her fellow colleagues abstained on this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course is in favour paternity rights and leave, but we cannot support calls for more eu legislation and interference on this subject. only our elected and accountable national government should decide the terms of parental leave, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels whose policies and laws are not accountable to the voters
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a much needed update to parental leave legislation. the full implementation of this directive would give hundreds of thousands of fathers the ability to spend quality time with their new children after birth. the labour party believes that everyone, regardless of the employment sector they work in, the type of contract they have, or the gender that they or their partner are, should be guaranteed the right to parental leave without discrimination.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course is in favour paternity rights and leave, but we cannot support calls for more eu legislation and interference on this subject. only our elected and accountable national government should decide the terms of parental leave, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels whose policies and laws are not accountable to the voters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because the directive, of which the report calls for the implementation, needs to be transposed. it is a much needed update to parental leave legislation which better reflects the position of women in today’s labour market. it also serves as a great example of how our membership of the eu provides much needed support for parents that the tories would not otherwise grant. the antiquated view that bringing up children should be the sole responsibility of mothers is holding back progress for gender equality. not only were the old rules taking women out of the labour market but they were not allowing men the chance to be fathers. the full implementation of this directive would give hundreds of thousands of fathers the ability to spend quality time with their new children after birth. i believe that everyone, regardless of the employment sector they work in, the type of contract they have, or the gender that they or their partner are, should be guaranteed the right to parental leave without discrimination.
in writing. ‒ across the eu, only 10% of men take parental leave, compared to 97% of women. that staggering disparity illustrates the scale of gender inequality that persists in our society. not only does that disparity in parental leave cost the eu economy eur 370 billion a year, it also perpetuates gender stereotypes, as well as the social, economic and political exclusion of women. the less women participate in the economy, the less visible they are, and that invisibility then leads to exclusion, objectification, and violence against women and girls. the eu has worked so far throughout its history to advance gender equality, and it must now take yet another step in breaking that cycle of injustice. the commission must now propose new ambitious legislative and non-legislative initiatives to transform this abysmal situation for the better.
in writing. ‒ labour meps today voted in favour of this report because it would be a much-needed update to parental leave legislation, and better reflect the position of women in today’s labour market. the full implementation of this directive would give hundreds of thousands of fathers the ability to spend quality time with their new children after birth, while giving women more opportunity to go back to work if they need or want to.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course is in favour of clamping down on traffickers and criminal gangs who exploit the poor victims. however the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking with the free movement of people across europe. if we allow turkey to join the eu or agree visa liberalisations this will only make trafficking much worse. ukip cannot therefore support this report as it calls for more eu legislation and interference in criminal and immigration law. the only way we can deal a blow to the traffickers and save lives is to end the free movement of people and restore sensible and ethical border controls. only our elected and accountable national government should decide criminal law, border controls and cooperation agreements with other countries, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ while i sympathise with the principle of this non-binding report, and am absolutely in favour of protecting the victims and clamping down on the traffickers, we cannot support more legislation and action by the eu. it is the eu which is facilitating this horrendous crime. it is the free movement of people, the schengen area and the open door immigration/asylum policy which is allowing trafficking to flourish once again. free movement allows the perfect environment for trafficking to flourish, with no checks at the borders between countries and no criminal background checks.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course is in favour of clamping down on traffickers and criminal gangs who exploit the poor victims. however the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking with the free movement of people across europe. if we allow turkey to join the eu or agree visa liberalisations this will only make trafficking much worse. ukip cannot therefore support this report as it calls for more eu legislation and interference in criminal and immigration law. the only way we can deal a blow to the traffickers and save lives is to end the free movement of people and restore sensible and ethical border controls. only our elected and accountable national government should decide criminal law, border controls and cooperation agreements with other countries, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course is in favour of clamping down on traffickers and criminal gangs who exploit the poor victims. however the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking with the free movement of people across europe. if we allow turkey to join the eu or agree visa liberalisations this will only make trafficking much worse. ukip cannot therefore support this report as it calls for more eu legislation and interference in criminal and immigration law. the only way we can deal a blow to the traffickers and save lives is to end the free movement of people and restore sensible and ethical border controls. only our elected and accountable national government should decide criminal law, border controls and cooperation agreements with other countries, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i support these efforts to tackle the serious issue of trafficking between eu member states. the uk has also taken a strong stance on this issue, bringing the first modern slavery bill in the eu into statute last year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the fight against trafficking in human beings requires close cooperation with our partners across the eu. labour meps have led calls for better identification, treatment and support for victims as well as harsher penalties for traffickers and those who exploit victims.
in writing. – diane james mep and her fellow ukip colleagues abstained on this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course is in favour of clamping down on traffickers and criminal gangs who exploit the poor victims. however the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking with the free movement of people across europe. if we allow turkey to join the eu or agree visa liberalisations this will only make trafficking much worse. ukip cannot therefore support this report as it calls for more eu legislation and interference in criminal and immigration law. the only way we can deal a blow to the traffickers and save lives is to end the free movement of people and restore sensible and ethical border controls. only our elected and accountable national government should decide criminal law, border controls and cooperation agreements with other countries, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the fight against trafficking in human beings requires close cooperation with our partners across the eu. labour meps have led calls for better identification, treatment and support for victims as well as harsher penalties for traffickers and those who exploit victims.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course is in favour of clamping down on traffickers and criminal gangs who exploit the poor victims. however the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking with the free movement of people across europe. if we allow turkey to join the eu or agree visa liberalisations this will only make trafficking much worse. ukip cannot therefore support this report as it calls for more eu legislation and interference in criminal and immigration law. the only way we can deal a blow to the traffickers and save lives is to end the free movement of people and restore sensible and ethical border controls. only our elected and accountable national government should decide criminal law, border controls and cooperation agreements with other countries, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the implementation of this directive which aims to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings and protecting the victims of its victims. i also believe that it is particularly important that this is from a gender perspective, as the vast majority of victims of thb (trafficking in human beings) are women and girls, primarily for the purpose of sexual exploitation. in line with the anti-trafficking directive to which the report refers, member states need to take measures to reduce the demand for trafficking. we need better identification, treatment and support for victims as well as harsher penalties for traffickers and those who exploit victims. the fight against thb requires close cooperation across the eu.
in writing. ‒ the fight against trafficking in human beings requires close cooperation with our partners across the eu. labour meps have led calls for better identification, treatment and support for victims as well as harsher penalties for traffickers and those who exploit victims.
in writing. ‒ the fight against trafficking in human beings requires close cooperation with our partners across the eu. labour meps have led calls for better identification, treatment and support for victims as well as harsher penalties for traffickers and those who exploit victims. women, girls and lgbti persons are at particular risk so it is important to give special consideration to victims from a gender perspective.
mr president, we do need to work together across europe to make sure that the single market is fit for a digital age, but we must get the detail right, we do not want to put an unnecessary handbrake on the digital economy. on geo-blocking: in traditional markets we do not force retailers to open their stores in all 28 markets. but now a store would have to work out whether or not they are complying with the national rules in all 28 countries, and this could be very burdensome especially for smaller companies. so instead of giving consumers more choice we just risk that smaller stores will not go online at all. on platforms, commissioner, thank you for stepping back from the brink and not coming up with a new regulation, but please be careful. platforms are growing because consumers like them, and i want to see more platforms, and more competition in platforms. change in the intermediary liability could be very destabilising, especially for smaller start-ups in the shared economy and in e-commerce. and on media services, our consumers love the diversity of new media: new media services are not the same as traditional media offers and we need to make that distinction.
madam president, i am concerned that these proposals misunderstand the digital world and the fact that it is consumer-driven. the geo-blocking proposal is ill-conceived and will drive small businesses off the internet. but i am very concerned about the proposals to make on-demand platforms meet a 20% european quota. this shows a lack of confidence in the european industry, which is booming, especially as netflix and amazon already meet the 20% quota. the proposal does not understand the nature of on-demand services: people watch what they want, when they want, and if the content is not good, they will not watch it. now there will be a push to produce low-quality european content just to meet the quota, and this will undermine the industry and consumers. there is also a question about what is european content in a globalised world? game of thrones is filmed mostly in europe. is it european? a ufc fight in las vegas featuring conor mcgregor, for example, is that european content? what about an app like major league baseball? are europeans who want to watch the new york yankees going to have to be forced to watch the essex arrows instead? what about crunchyroll, that specialises in japanese anime? or core tv, streaming south korean content? are they all expected to have european content?
blue-card question. – thank you mr szejnfeld for your contribution there. i agree with a lot of what you have said, but further to what my colleague maria grapini and others said, the skills agenda is also important when we are dealing with the digital single market and e-skills. i was wondering if you could maybe make a comment on the importance of e-skills in this debate, too.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the sad truth is that the european commissioners are going to be excluded from the only meaningful action at the g7 summit, which will be more blood-curdling warnings to the british not to dare to vote to leave the eu. you see, the likes of mr juncker and mr timmermans, and mr tusk as well, are judged to be counterproductive even to project fear as a reminder to voters of eurozone folly and wider eu economic failure. how embarrassing it must be for the eu’s representatives to turn up to each g7 with yet another excuse for economic failure. this time, according to the commission’s own fact sheet, they intend to claim that despite a more difficult global environment the eu’s recovery continues. that reminds me of the old line about never letting the facts get in the way of a good story. we are told the economy in all member states will grow next year, albeit unevenly – that is one word for it. the commission’s g7 factsheet says that investment, although still low compared with pre-crisis levels, is ‘gaining traction’. traction in my country is what we put patients in when they have serious fractures. let me remind you that the crisis was in 2008, yet recovery has still not taken a firm hold. the fact sheet hopes to get average unemployment in the eu below 10% in 2017. that is not a fact sheet, it is a wish list. and it is always ‘jam tomorrow’, is it not? as the much-loved british sitcom character del boy used to say, ‘this time next year we could be millionaires’. it is not going to happen under the euro, the euro is a losers’ currency. it is not a case of the eurozone battling against the global environment so much as the euro dragging down the global economic environment. and instead of facing up to this, no doubt even now you will be dreaming up your excuses for the 2017 summit, predicting that 2018 will be your year. face it: the dog did not eat your homework, the euro killed your growth.
madam president, the global challenges we are facing have been well versed in this house: terrorism, the migration crisis, energy and climate change. and we are still grappling with the consequences of the financial crisis, so the main aim for the g7 has to be to address this. we live in an interdependent and interconnected world where we really need to find solutions together. the g7 are the most powerful economies of the world and they must tackle the level of unemployment we face. they must tackle this to increase job creation, because only together can we really tackle the challenges that we face. rightly, this meeting is concerned about the outcome of the uk referendum on its membership of the eu. members of britain’s leading tax and spending think-tank have warned today that leaving the eu would force ministers to extend austerity measures by up to two years to achieve a budget surplus. thus, the message is clear, if we want our voice to be heard on a global level we want the uk to lead and to stay in the eu. as gordon brown stated elegantly this morning, when it comes to the uk relationship in the eu ‘it should be about clout and not about out’.
mr president, we are voting on this resolution because the commission is holding talks with the usa regarding the transfer of private citizens’ data. the motion calls for stronger data protection arrangements between the eu and the usa. commercial companies have contracts with their customers, which include provisions on how their data may be used. governments have no such contracts and they may enact legislation regarding the use of personal data which does not have the direct consent of its owners. therefore, governments should treat the use of such data with the greatest respect and utmost caution. there are particular concerns about sharing data with the usa, which has reduced protection of its own citizens’ data under legislation such as the patriot act and which is never a respecter of foreign nationals’ rights. therefore the uk independence party’s meps will vote against this resolution on the basis that any legislation should remain the prerogative of the democratic nation state.
mr president, we must recognise the steps that our american partners have taken over the last few years in improving protection for data flowing from the eu to the us in direct response to concerns arising, in particular within this parliament. the us congress and administration have enacted more than two dozen reforms to surveillance laws and programmes such as the privacy shield and the judicial redress acts, among others. as such, my conservative colleagues and i see this debate as an opportunity for us all to welcome these efforts, which give added legal clarity for businesses and consumers alike. we must take this progress into trade negotiations such as ttip and tisa, where setting benchmarks for data protection should increase confidence on both sides. investment across the atlantic is already worth around usd 4 trillion, and the steps the americans have taken to ensure legal reciprocity, data protection and legal redress for eu citizens will help to boost this even further.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his opening remarks. the commissioner has accepted the december court ruling and has publicly committed to hastening the adoption of the criterion. i welcome that. in addition, we have legal advice from parliament’s services which has acknowledged that taking further action against the commission would be superfluous given that, as soon as the criteria are published, there would no longer be a case. so i look forward to the work that we will begin in june when we see the criteria. i would just like to take this opportunity to restate my own position, which is that these criteria must be scientifically robust and fit for regulatory purpose. they need to ensure that human health and the environment are protected, taking into account the possible consequences for the agri-food sector and the need to encourage innovation and the development of new plant protection solutions. parliament must be serious about supporting the commission’s initiatives on better regulation and improved evidence-based policy making. then we should let it complete its work and save our energy for the evaluation and decision making that will follow.
mr president, my thanks to the commission and to the previous speaker. so why does e-identification really matter? what matters is we have heard about access to public services in e-government and also to online shopping and e-commerce, and without it the best access that we can have would be limited and in the worst case scenario could be denied at all, so that is why e-identification is so important. what we are doing is creating one set of rules that covers 28 countries, covering 500 million people, and together we can tackle these challenges. interoperability has previously been outlined, legal certainty also, because at the end of the day, e-identification really is about creating trust. trust is key to e-id, and by working together we can make this happen. in my country we have just 29 days before we have an eu referendum, and it is vital that we – britain – remain part of the european union. we have influence over this very debate on e-identification, but if we leave, if we walk away from our closest neighbours and closest friends, we will have no say in this debate and yet we will still have to pay to have the privilege to trade. in my own constituency there are 250 000 jobs reliant on exports to the european union, and i do not want to see our workplace rights jeopardised. therefore, if we were to leave, we would be poorer, isolated and diminished, and that is why great britain has to remain part of the european union.
rapporteur. – mr president, the energy retail market in europe is not functioning properly and citizens are directly impacted by this failure. around the eu, consumers are overcharged for their energy bills. in my country, the uk, consumers overpaid gbp 1.2 billion a year for their energy bills between 2009 and 2013. over 50 million citizens are living in energy poverty in the eu and are forced to choose on a daily basis between heating, cooling or eating. around the eu, consumers are willing to invest in energy efficiency and self-generation projects, but are hindered by heavy administrative burdens and high upfront investment costs. throughout europe, energy markets are not transparent and are not competitive enough. in this context, industry fails to pass falling wholesale prices on to consumers. energy bills are becoming increasingly complex and citizens are not able to compare offers easily. many consumers are on outdated energy contracts, unaware of their ability to switch. the ‘new deal’ report, on which we will be voting tomorrow, highlights key recommendations to address these problems. regarding the retail energy market, to increase the transparency and clarity of bills, we need to include peer-based comparisons and information on switching in those bills. consumers should be placed on the most appropriate tariffs, and suppliers should notify them about their cheapest offers. we need to eradicate termination fees and penalties for switching suppliers. and finally, social tariffs should be maintained for the most vulnerable. regarding self-generation, we need to set up a common legal framework for the right to store and sell excess electricity at a fair price. we need to promote new business models, collective purchasing schemes and innovative financial instruments to incentivise self-generation and self-consumption. and on energy poverty, we need to focus energy efficiency objectives and funds on our most vulnerable citizens. we also call, commissioner, for a definition of energy poverty and an action plan from the european commission. i was very pleased that the committee on industry, research and energy voted on tuesday, on the energy efficiency implementation report, to place tackling energy poverty at the heart of energy efficiency. energy efficiency can be the glue of social cohesion and european integration. i strongly believe that proposing a meaningful level of ambition in the revision of the 2030 energy efficiency targets is a necessity. for every 1% improvement in energy efficiency, three million more homes can be properly renovated and seven million citizens lifted out of energy poverty. as a conclusion, i want to highlight that energy is not a commodity: it is a basic social right. as a conclusion, i want to say that this report is about the widow in bulgaria, unable to compare energy offers and unaware that she could save money by switching. it is about the student in the uk, living in a rented flat, poorly insulated, and with inefficient heating. it is about the young couple in malta, willing to invest in a solar panel, but facing high upfront investments. and it is about the long-term sick person in spain, too frightened of costs to turn on their air conditioning in august. it is about benefits for all, and 28 member states working together to end energy poverty.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my group supports the concept of an energy union. we believe the best way to ensure energy security for the whole of europe and to provide the lowest prices for our citizens is a properly integrated gas and electricity market. i want consumers and businesses in my constituency to be able to buy their energy from any company in the eu. i want an energy system that is fair on consumers and helps to protect the energy-poor. i am happy for the commission to share the best practices of member states in combating energy poverty. customers should receive clear information in their bills, and switching energy suppliers should be a simple and transparent process. i support the call that energy providers’ websites and digital invoicing should be fully accessible to disabled people. whilst energy poverty needs to be tackled, the best way this can be done on a european level is through having a properly-functioning and competitive single market that delivers low prices. it is not for the eu to say how member states deliver their social policy programmes. i doubt that the broad common and non—quantitative definition of energy policy that the rapporteur calls for will achieve anything at all. i do not want the commission to bring forward an action plan or to propose legislation on this subject, because these are matters for the member states. the rapporteur calls for a legal maximum percentage increase in the costs that distribution networks can charge. this is surely a matter for national regulators. we do not need eu legislation on this subject. we also do not need her recommendation that certain levies and network charges should be ‘progressively applied’. has she thought what this means in practice? it is not the eu’s business, and it is also inappropriate for her to call for a ban on doorstep selling by energy companies. this is not for europe to decide. i do agree with the rapporteur that the third energy package has not been fully implemented. commissioner, we need you to defend consumers and to ensure this law is enforced in all eu countries.
mr president, there is some good stuff in this report. transparency is an excellent thing, which we approve of; competition – the ability to switch suppliers: that too is extremely positive; completing interconnectors so that we can trade energy across europe: that too is very positive. but with great respect, i point out that we are ignoring the elephant in the room. these measures are merely fiddling at the margin. the reason why we have very high energy prices in europe and the reason why we are driving our industry into an uncompetitive situation compared to the rest of the world is that we have chosen to rely obsessively on unreliable, expensive, intermittent renewable energy which exports inefficiency to the backup and across the grid. that is the reason, and if we fail to address that reason, we will not solve the problems of competitiveness in the energy market in the european union, and we will not deliver secure and affordable energy to our consumers. the fact is we have chosen as a deliberate policy to drive up energy prices; we have chosen as a deliberate policy to drive many consumers into fuel poverty; we have chosen to undermine the competitiveness of our industries and to drive energy-intensive businesses offshore to other jurisdictions with lower environmental standards, where they actually emit more co2 than they would do if we remain. it is a lose-lose policy, and until we start addressing the fundamentals we will not solve these problems.
mr president, i would also like to thank my colleague and fellow north—west labour mep teresa griffin for her report on a new deal for energy consumers. completing the european energy union and lowering energy costs across the eu will have an enormous direct positive impact on british citizens, and it is yet another reason for us to vote to stay in the eu. i welcome the report’s recommendations on fighting energy poverty and i am here to stress that we must include a holistic gender perspective in all of these proposals. single mother households are much more likely to face energy poverty than male—headed households. energy and household costs are strongly linked to household indebtedness, which in turn plays a role in female homelessness. these are issues we need more european research on. economic data on households is important, but household income can be unequal and vulnerable women or children can end up facing de facto poverty – in effect the feminisation of poverty – and this should also be taken into account when we define what energy poverty is.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank colleagues very much for their comments and i would particularly like to thank the commissioner. we look forward to working closely with him. i really hope that the vote tomorrow in plenary will be positive, but i see that some political groups question the idea of a ban on unfair commercial practices, of the need for a social tariff for low—income citizens, and of peer—based comparison on bills, and are rowing back from the votes in committee. i am very disappointed in that. to those people voting against these issues, ashley fox – is ashley still here, no he has gone – are you really prepared to go back to the uk and to your region to face your constituents and say that they still have to put up with aggressive doorstep or phone selling, especially your elderly residents? i don’t think so. are other groups ready to say that you voted against social tariffs for low—income citizens? and are you really willing to tell that mother of three that she cannot be automatically told the amount of energy she is using and why she is paying for it? we have to end termination fees. we do not pay them in telecoms. why on earth should our citizens pay for them in energy? and fantasy from ukip as usual. this is about the exchange of best practice – as the commissioner said – between european citizens and local authorities, between consumers, ngos, and local organisations coming together to develop innovative projects. the eu is not the problem here. it is part of the solution to eradicating energy poverty. we should be proud of a europe of jobs and growth, a europe that acts to protect its most vulnerable citizens. it is a scandal that we have 50 million citizens in energy poverty. i repeat that, in 2016 and beyond, no one should have to choose between heating and cooling or eating.
madam president, it is good to see the european parliament debating gender discrimination and poverty tonight, although you would think they might have allocated more than five minutes for such an important debate. i note, for example, that all of the top seven eu jobs are currently held by men, so the eu certainly has a little bit of a way to go in this respect, whereas the uk has, of course, led the way in many of these issues – for example in science and research, where the uk leads the way in terms of having 6 of the top 25 universities in the world, but also the percentage of women in science and research jobs are much higher than across the european union. we had our equal pay act in 1970 – three years before we even joined the european union, and well before the european union legislated. we have 52 weeks of maternity leave guaranteed in uk law, compared with the eu requirement of 14. in fact, eu rules put car insurance premiums for women up by gbp 300 a year. so is the eu really part of the solution, or is it actually part of the problem?
rapporteur. – madam president, the single market has been a significant achievement. it’s more integrated than india’s market and that’s not bad considering we have got 28 countries. but although tariffs have gone, non—tariff barriers (ntbs) still exist. we need a proper single market that delivers for consumers and for all businesses. at the moment the single market works for big businesses. they have the economies of scale and the wealth to get around barriers to trade that small companies do not – they just give up. as i’ve gone around my constituency from stratford to stoke, small businesses tell me that they often find it much easier to trade with canada or the us than they do with france or germany. artificial barriers and red tape block the free movement of goods and services. so they give up and we lose that trade, and then they watch big companies come in and take over that trade. this fuels a feeling that europe is just for big business and not for the little guys. at the same time, consumers lose out. they don’t get a wider choice of products or lower prices through economies of scale that the single market should give them. we know the problem and we’ve been trying to solve it for years, but we haven’t looked at it from the perspective of international trade. it is sometimes forgotten in this house that trading in another eu country is still international trade and it involves different rules, different regulations and different languages. this is what this report is about. it is trying to identify technical barriers to trade within the internal market. now the term ‘non—tariff barriers’ is well—known in international trade, but it’s fair to say that we had quite a lot of discussion about what it is and what it isn’t within this house, and the definition was tricky to agree on. but one thing that isn’t a non—tariff barrier is workers and social rights. let’s be clear about that. these apply to everyone in a country and they are non—discriminatory. nor is it an ntb when governments legislate for legitimate public policy reasons, but their actions should be proportionate. so it is not a non—tariff barrier if an action is proportionate, non—discriminatory and serves a legitimate public policy objective. but protectionism isn’t fair; it kills jobs, it kills growth and it kills competitiveness and it penalises consumers. it exists in a variety of sectors within europe, and we would challenge third countries if they employed such methods. now i believe in competition, and i believe in different economic and regulatory models in eu countries is a good thing as it allows countries to have competitive advantages. this isn’t about harmonization, but where there are problems we’ve got to highlight them, and we found problems in a number of sectors, including retail, construction and professional services, to name a few, and we need to address them. lack of mutual recognition of testing on goods or professional qualifications is a key example. do taps really need to be tested 28 times to be sold in 28 different eu countries? why are british kit cars with type approvals not allowed to be sold in belgium, for example? why is does a uk hairdresser with 30 years’ experience have to train for 4 years to be a hairdresser in germany? it makes no sense. why does an austrian ski instructor have to retrain to be an instructor in france? it makes no sense. why does an online betting company have to have an offline establishment to trade in another country? why are there fees on global income for supermarkets in eastern europe which only hit foreign companies. these are europeans blocking other europeans; there’s no solidarity here at all. now we don’t need new legislation. we need a change in mindset in national ministries and we need better and clearer enforcement of single market rules by the commission. we need more collaboration between member states and we’ve identified these gaps in the report with regard to goods, but i think it’s in services where there are real problems. the notification regime under the services directive is a prime example of where member states have not matched their commitments. the single market should be a partnership between countries and their governments should commit with their actions. as we’ve seen with this report, parliament is fully behind this objective, and i hope the commission is too. it won’t be easy but it’s in all our long—term interests, and i hope this report will provide a new impetus to tear down barriers and create a free single market that delivers for businesses – both big and small – for consumers and for workers.
madam president, digital currencies are the epitome of the free market at work; they know no borders – whether national borders or european union borders – and yet they work. they are not backed by some sort of gold standard, and they are something which can be mined online. this is something which is perhaps very strange to a lot of us. their value fluctuates like any physical currency, and this works in a bubble which is unregulated and pretty much unregulatable. so what does the european union do? well it wants to do the same thing that it does with everything that it does not currently control – it wants to interfere and to regulate. to me, that is completely the wrong approach for anyone to be taking on an issue like this.
madam president, i have a message for my london constituents: do not believe the opinion polls in the eu referendum campaign. i am getting quite a different picture when i am out campaigning. the overwhelming majority of people i speak to tell me they are voting to leave. they represent all sections of society and ethnic groups, but they are generally working people who have simply had enough of the european union. last week, i spoke to a young romanian woman whose been in britain for just one year. she said she wished she could vote to leave. her reason was because she could not get a school place for her young child. what does it mean when recent a eu migrant voices the same complaints as british citizens? don’t listen to david cameron’s increasingly ludicrous and scare tactics. i exhort my constituents to vote to set themselves free from the european union on 23 june.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i welcome this debate this morning but the reality is, of course, that no government, no politician and certainly no commissioner is all powerful, that we can solve the problem all on our own. we had a debate last night in the parliament and in the committee, and i have to say i found it one of the most pessimistic debates i have ever sat through. i listened to the experts and i listened to the commissioner. there was only one real truth and that was by the deputy director—general, mr korte, who said the situation was not good, and there was no need to beat about the bush. that is what your own deputy director—general said last night, mr commissioner. now i have to say to you, we have to recognise some realities here. it has been mentioned this morning, if you have an increase this year of an extra 6% or 7% of milk, a market has to be found for that. the producers in the member states who are producing this milk need to be aware that they are continuing to stoke the fire, and that they are continuing to make the problem worse not better, and certainly voluntary cutbacks will not work. and let us be honest, some member states are positively going out encouraging their farmers to produce more milk regardless – they are going for market share. there is only one way that this can be resolved, which is that a lot of good farmers and family farms are going to hit the wall. there is a big difference between producers and processors, and there are processors in serious difficulty as well. we have a situation where the retailers, mr commissioner, are getting away on a coach. they are laughing all the way to the bank at the cost of the producer, of the farmer and the sweat of his brow in the production of that milk. what we need is to sit down and to get some new ideas on the table. we are not going to go forward and it is not good enough, mr commissioner, in the depth of this crisis to blame producers; it is not good enough. i remember the reform coming forward from the old commission. i remember commissioner fischer boel and i remember we fought her hard when she talked about her soft landing and we asked her where it was going to be. where is the soft landing today for those who the banks are going to foreclose on, mr commissioner? and to the council i have to say it is time you woke up in council. you cannot continue to do what you are doing. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, our house of lords in the united kingdom had a debate and discussion on this, and evidence presented to them suggested that sectors that have not benefited historically from direct payments are better prepared to operate in world agricultural markets, and the pig and the poultry sectors – along with a horticultural sector – were ahead of other sectors in terms of having business knowledge and recording systems to understand their production costs. they are market-focused, producing for a defined market in close collaboration with their supply chains. it is all about markets. public policy should not aim to control prices but to help farmers develop resilience to manage the risks. the point is that government should really only be thinking in terms of helping to overcome catastrophic and extreme events on farms, such as floods or drought, and not meddling in pricing or controlling supply and demand. one—off support packages can help to counter the impact of extreme natural disasters or catastrophic events that are beyond individual farmer’s control. however, the 2015 dairy support package, for example, after endless discussion, etc., resulted in a payment of just gbp 1 500 to each uk dairy farmer. really that is just tokenism. farmers have always been willing and able to expand production to match increasing demand. a willingness to recognise that there is too much milk is now required.
madam president, i do not think it is an understatement to say that the dairy sector in northern ireland is facing the worst crisis in a generation. let us be clear, the impact of this crisis is much more than an imbalance within the supply chain and low prices. as a last resort, many family farms are turning to banks to borrow even more money, with some facing the really difficult situation of not being able to continue. this week in my local farming paper i have noticed five dispersal sales. this is the bitter reality of a prolonged crisis and a failure to act early – real families, real people, losing their homes and their livelihoods. currently, we are sacrificing as well our long-term ability to produce milk by failing to act against unprecedented market volatility and political actions which are outside of farmers’ control. this is the third event this week that i have attended on this issue. we have rehearsed the problem. we have reviewed the actions taken so far, including that poorly—targeted aid package which many members have not even spent. supply control and market support are two proven methods. why are we ignoring these? commissioner hogan and the council have indicated that we have used all the tools available in the cap toolkit. clearly the cap is broken and farmers in northern ireland are demanding root and branch review or are simply just saying that europe cannot help anymore.
madam president, against the backdrop of relentless problems in the dairy sector, i strongly believe that european dairy farmers need a realistic policy approach which could be based on the following four pillars. first, the power of consumers must be harnessed in support of struggling dairy farmers by making smart use of labelling, awareness raising and campaigning. labelling can help ensure that a fair price is paid to the farmer. second, the cap should boost its risk management instruments designed to even out the effects of market volatility. participation in income support tools should be encouraged and supported with contract-based supply chain relations with the retailer. third, we need to facilitate the development of farmers’ groupings through cooperatives or producer organisations. united farmers are stronger farmers. and fourth, it is time the eu started seriously exploring viable economic alternatives to dairy production as it becomes obvious that we cannot continue with the current levels of milk output. i invite the commission to consider these four approaches in the interests of fairness in the food supply chain and the legitimacy of the wider common agricultural policy.
madam president, the industry has been caught in the perfect storm, and there are two actions the commission can take. short-term we appreciate commissioner hogan’s efforts to help the industry through a very deep crisis, although we must acknowledge and accept their resources are limited, and would come nowhere near offsetting the losses incurred by the industry. but longer term, there is a very great deal that we can do. the likelihood is prices do not stay depressed for ever. when we look to the future we must encourage and support the industry to become more productive, more competitive, more resilient. we must help it address market balance and to build new markets. this is not something the state does to industry, it is something the industry has to do to help itself. only by fixing the roof when the sun is shining can farmers prepare and protect themselves from future crises.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i also want to thank the rapporteur, particularly for her work to try and keep us on board. this report shows there is a clear will to improve the single market and make it work better for everyone, both consumers and businesses, and i welcome the emphasis on cutting red tape, on reducing burdens for businesses. this should be at the heart of future efforts in this area. the report’s emphasis on opening up the service sector and addressing weaknesses in mutual recognition is also welcome, and the report is also right to focus on supporting smes and start-ups and cutting burdens for them. i welcome the support for a once—only principle for administrative requirements and i also agree with the importance of the sharing economy. so we will support the report and we thank the rapporteur for her efforts, but we do have some concerns in areas which we cannot support. for example, non-agricultural gis. we do not support this. it is not workable and i personally do not agree with the premise for an extension to the system. on the ‘made in’ label, i have not seen any evidence that a mandatory scheme is more beneficial than a voluntary scheme, nor would it contribute to product traceability. a product made in china with a slight finishing in europe should not be packaged as european. that would be cheating consumers. so we cannot support those elements but we will support the overall package.
mr president, in this chamber it is becoming quite a regular theme to discuss how the single market is faltering, and as always the so-called problems lie not with the commission proposals but with member states who fail to implement these laws. blaming member states is of course an easy answer to deflect the real issue of the single market, but we all know that the elephant in the room is the issue of over-regulation. take, for example, manufacturers of bathroom goods. to sell toothbrushes in the single market they must abide by 31 eu laws, and to sell towels they must abide by an astonishing 454 eu laws. when you look into food regulation, it gets even more ridiculous. for bread, you need to abide by 1 200 laws, and to produce and sell milk you must abide by 12 000 eu laws. the single market is an instrument that favours big business. endless rules and regulations which are simply too complex to comply with destroy the prospects of small-sized businesses and lead to higher prices and less choice for the consumer. british businesses have a choice, a once-in-a-generation opportunity to oppose more decades of costly regulations, endless red tape and unnecessary bureaucracy. on 23 june, many britons can take back control and vote to leave the european union.
mr president, the single market makes it easier for businesses and consumers to trade across a marketplace of 500 million customers in 28 countries. it helps us to reduce costs and therefore increase choice. it is good to hear members from across europe support it. in the east of england that i represent, 50% of our exports go to customers in other parts of the single market; 300 000 jobs are directly linked to this trade, and it is 10% of our gdp. of course there is always more we can do, especially to increase trade in services, to make the market fit for purpose in a digital age, to support innovators and to support businesses, small and large, and this report makes 100 specific recommendations. i am very pleased that in this report, parliament will endorse the reforms negotiated by our national leaders in february to reduce red tape and set specific targets to reduce burden reductions in key sectors. thank you also for supporting my suggestion for a more transparent and accessible appeals process on standardisations. there are a few issues i do not agree with but we can strip those out. in general this sets a clear direction of travel for improving and modernising our single market, and this will support jobs and growth, choice, and reduce costs. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – so the standardisation process works with industry, businesses small and large, to let them set common european standards to make it easier for them to trade together, and i believe businesses small and large, from the social economy as well as traditional players, should work together and make that case to the european commission. but this has to be industry-led, working with consumers and businesses.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative report that attempts to regulate virtual currencies that operate on a global basis. the tone of this report clearly demonstrates that the eu is scared of the fact people have a choice of the currency they use online, and the eu thinks the united states is in control of the internet. i voted against this report.
in writing. – any attempt to regulate internet virtual currencies on a geographical basis is futile and misplaced. an eu which has created the euro as its single currency cannot hope to lend credibility and reliability to virtual currencies, in fact the eu’s record is so bad that any regulation by it would be bad for confidence. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ any attempt to regulate internet virtual currencies on a geographical basis is futile and misplaced. an eu which has created the euro as its single currency cannot hope to lend credibility and reliability to virtual currencies, in fact the eu’s record is so bad that any regulation by it would be bad for confidence. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ any attempt to regulate internet virtual currencies on a geographical basis is futile and misplaced. an eu which has created the euro as its single currency cannot hope to lend credibility and reliability to virtual currencies, in fact the eu’s record is so bad that any regulation by it would be bad for confidence. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – any attempt to regulate internet virtual currencies on a geographical basis is futile and misplaced. an eu which has created the euro as its single currency cannot hope to lend credibility and reliability to virtual currencies, in fact the eu’s record is so bad that any regulation by it would be bad for confidence. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which supports the development of virtual currencies, which in turn have the potential to lower costs for businesses and consumers when making cross-border transfers of funds. this report could also help reduce costs to accessing finance for those without a bank account whilst it also supports monitoring, rather than harmful regulation of these new forms of currency.
in writing. ‒ my colleagues and i voted in favour of this report which importantly highlights the potential of virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology (dlt) in various areas. these include lowering costs in cross-border transfers of funds, allowing for easier access to finance for people without bank accounts and the ability to develop secure online micropayment systems. the risks of virtual currencies are also addressed. overall, i believe this report to be well balanced and it does not advocate measures which would regulate virtual currencies and dlt out of existence.
in writing. ‒ it has become clear that, with the growth of virtual currencies such as the bitcoin, the distributed ledger technology behind it will impact on both the financial sector and beyond. as with any new technology, there are both opportunities and risks. but this is not about stifling innovation – this report proposes that we should be smart with regulation, not heavy-handed. instead, the rapporteur (my s&d colleague) proposes a precautionary monitoring approach and includes updating the existing money laundering directive. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it calls on the commission to establish a task force to monitor the further evolution of virtual currencies, to provide technical expertise ensuring a timely reaction from regulators if and when needed, and to develop stress tests to protect us against potential systemic threats.
in writing. ‒ whilst there are some concerns with regard to the increasing use of virtual currencies, it is clear that this technology has potential benefits. it is important that the eu keeps up to date on these issues and i welcome this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it calls on the commission to establish a task force to monitor the further evolution of virtual currencies, to provide technical expertise ensuring a timely reaction from regulators if and when needed, and to develop stress tests to protect us against potential systemic threats.
in writing. ‒ any attempt to regulate internet virtual currencies on a geographical basis is futile and misplaced. an eu which has created the euro as its single currency cannot hope to lend credibility and reliability to virtual currencies, in fact the eu’s record is so bad that any regulation by it would be bad for confidence. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ any attempt to regulate internet virtual currencies on a geographical basis is futile and misplaced. an eu which has created the euro as its single currency cannot hope to lend credibility and reliability to virtual currencies, in fact the eu’s record is so bad that any regulation by it would be bad for confidence. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ attempting to regulate a virtual currency that operates on a global basis is futile.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recognises that the key to smart regulation of virtual currencies is for the regulators to develop a sufficient capacity to address the highly technical challenges that such dynamic innovations bring with it. pre-emptive and heavy-handed regulation would stifle growth and should be avoided. and, indeed, as this report outlines, this can be avoided.
in writing. ‒ this application relates to 2132 workers who were made redundant in the transport sector - moryglobal sas - in france. it is also a crisis-based application based on the decline in freight transport in europe by 13% (and by 21% in france) since the crisis. there were some issues with this application as the company had sought state funds in recent years and then relocated anyway. however, the french trade unions while critical of the company’s action still supported the use of the fund for the workers. therefore, i voted in favour of this application.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case, at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of france, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. – ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve €5,146,800 of taxpayer's money to be given to 2,132 workers made redundant in france. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve €5 146 800 of taxpayer’s money to be given to 2,132 workers made redundant in france. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve €5 146 800 of taxpayer’s money to be given to 2,132 workers made redundant in france. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. – ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve €5 146 800 of taxpayer’s money to be given to 2,132 workers made redundant in france. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as in my view we need to reduce eu spending wherever possible and also provide stronger budget scrutiny to reduce waste and inefficiency of taxpayers’ money. i support less spending at the eu level, not more.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns, due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns, due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve eur 5 146 800 of taxpayers’ money to be given to 2 132 workers made redundant in france. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers’ money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve eur 5 146 800 of taxpayers’ money to be given to 2 132 workers made redundant in france. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers’ money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ it is not for the eu to make redundancy payments.
in writing. ‒ i gave the green light for this mobilisation of the egaf because it is a greatly needed tool in allowing our society to receive the biggest benefits from globalisation while providing a safety net where unforeseen excesses and competition arise. this represents the fourth mobilisation of this fund, which have hitherto represented 8.4 million euros, leaving 157.2 million euros remaining. this fact reveals that this fund is not abused and completely not misspent and i encourage the uk government to change its position on this fund.
in writing. ‒ this is an application from greece under the crisis criteria (as opposed to globalisation) for 557 workers and 543 neets from the same region. the redundant workers are from a cooperative of grocery stores, supermarket larissa, which closed last year. the application cites a 30% drop in food/beverage consumption and purchasing power as a result of the crisis. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this application.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case, at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of greece, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. – ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve eur 6 468 000 of taxpayers’ money to be given to 557 workers made redundant in greece. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers’ money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve eur 6 468 000 of taxpayers’ money to be given to 557 workers made redundant in greece. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers’ money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve eur 6 468 000 of taxpayers’ money to be given to 557 workers made redundant in greece. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers’ money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. – ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve eur 6 468 000 of taxpayers’ money to be given to 557 workers made redundant in greece. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers’ money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as in my view we need to reduce eu spending wherever possible and also provide stronger budget scrutiny to reduce waste and inefficiency of taxpayers’ money. i support less spending at the eu level, not more.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that the egf offers value for money when it comes to attempting to reintegrate redundant workers back into the labour market. i want to see proper budget discipline by the eu that gives british taxpayers good value for money and the inefficient egf does not do this. as a result, my conservative colleagues and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns, due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns, due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve eur 6 468 000 of taxpayers’ money to be given to 557 workers made redundant in greece. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers’ money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary vote as it would approve eur 6 468 000 of taxpayers’ money to be given to 557 workers made redundant in greece. ukip is totally opposed to the eu spending british taxpayers’ money as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ it is not for the eu to make redundancy payments.
in writing. ‒ i gave the green light for this mobilisation of the egaf because it is a greatly needed tool in allowing our society to receive the biggest benefits from globalisation while providing a safety net where unforeseen excesses and competition arise. this represents the fifth mobilisation of this fund, which have hitherto represented 14.8 million euro, leaving 150.7 million euro remaining. this fact reveals that this fund is not abused and completely not misspent and i encourage the uk government to change its position on this fund.
in writing. ‒ the case concerns the waiver of the immunity of gianluca buonanno from the enf. in this case, he has not committed a crime but was rather the subject of threatening phone calls. according to italian constitutional law however, the waiver of his immunity is needed before the police can access his phone records or acquire data concerning his telephone traffic. therefore, i voted in favour of this waiver.
in writing. ‒ as this was a secret ballot, for reasons of transparency and democracy i wish to place on record that i abstained on this waiver. my reasoning is that, although the waiver is fair and reasonable, it probably is not in fact necessary. i do not want to tacitly accept that we have jurisdiction if we do not have it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive the immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive the immunity.
in writing. ‒ abstain on this as it is within the sovereign authority of italy to resolve this issue.
in writing. ‒ this proposal would see sweden negate its obligations in relation to the refugee relocation programme. in the initial report sweden was essentially requesting to be treated like italy and greece and to have refugees relocated out of sweden. this report however seeks to simply suspend sweden’s obligations to the relocation agreement. given the worsening situation in the mediterranean, the deterioration of conditions in detention/reception centres across europe and the onset of summer, now is not the time for any nation to shirk its responsibilities to address the refugee crisis. the rapporteur and gue/ngl have tabled a rejection amendment on that basis. we have consistently called for everyone to play their part in this crisis, and therefore i tabled a negative vote.
in writing. ‒ this is a legislative report that highlights the economic and social problems sweden is facing as a result of the migrant crisis. sweden wants to suspend its obligation as part of the eu to accept migrants for a period of one year. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – this report recognises that sweden has had a higher number of refugees per capita than any other eu nation. this vote allows sweden to suspend its right to take refugees in for a year. ukip voted for this proposal to give sweden the opportunity to adjust to this demand. we also do not believe it should be in the eu’s remit to decide over member states how many migrants should be repatriated to specific member states.
in writing. ‒ this report recognises that sweden has had a higher number of refugees per capita than any other eu nation. this vote allows sweden to suspend its right to take refugees in for a year. ukip voted for this proposal to give sweden the opportunity to adjust to this demand. we also do not believe it should be in the eu’s remit to decide over member states how many migrants should be repatriated to specific member states.
in writing. ‒ this report recognises that sweden has had a higher number of refugees per capita than any other eu nation. this vote allows sweden to suspend its right to take refugees in for a year. ukip voted for this proposal to give sweden the opportunity to adjust to this demand. we also do not believe it should be in the eu’s remit to decide over member states how many migrants should be repatriated to specific member states.
in writing. – this report recognises that sweden has had a higher number of refugees per capita than any other eu nation. this vote allows sweden to suspend its right to take refugees in for a year. ukip voted for this proposal to give sweden the opportunity to adjust to this demand. we also do not believe it should be in the eu’s remit to decide over member states how many migrants should be repatriated to specific member states.
in writing. ‒ this report recognises that sweden has had a higher number of refugees per capita than any other eu nation. this vote allows sweden to suspend its right to take refugees in for a year. ukip voted for this proposal to give sweden the opportunity to adjust to this demand. we also do not believe it should be in the eu’s remit to decide over member states how many migrants should be repatriated to specific member states.
in writing. ‒ this report recognises that sweden has had a higher number of refugees per capita than any other eu nation. this vote allows sweden to suspend its right to take refugees in for a year. ukip voted for this proposal to give sweden the opportunity to adjust to this demand. we also do not believe it should be in the eu’s remit to decide over member states how many migrants should be repatriated to specific member states.
in writing. ‒ i follow the commission’s view that sweden’s emergency situation is such that the swedish asylum system is under so much strain that sweden’s participation in the relocation scheme warrants suspension for a year. sweden had, by far, the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu during 2015 and i am concerned that the services in sweden won’t be able to cope and that’s before one considers, as the commission has, the number of unaccompanied minors among the applicants.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution which concerned the new eu-us privacy shield. this is an agreement which is a commission proposal to create a new framework for exchange of data. it follows from the invalidation of the safe harbour agreement last year. this privacy shield agreement will not effectively shield citizens’ privacy rights. privacy shield does still allow us intelligence to collect massive and indiscriminate data, however, and it is expected that new challenges could be brought to the court. obama policy directive 28/2014 indicates the following six instances in which collection of large quantities of signals intelligence data is authorised: (1) espionage and other threats and activities directed by foreign powers or their intelligence services against the united states and its interests; (2) threats to the united states and its interests from terrorism; (3) threats to the united states and its interests from the development, possession, proliferation, or use of weapons of mass destruction; (4) cybersecurity threats; (5) threats to u.s. or allied armed forces or other u.s or allied personnel; and (6) transnational criminal threats, including illicit finance and sanctions evasion related to the other purposes named in this section.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the commissioner to get involved in legislating for any data exchanged between the united states and the eu. the united states lacks a comprehensive data protection act compared to the uk. i believe blanket permission clauses are negative to data protection rights. i abstained on this resolution as a whole.
in writing. – ukip are principally against the eu taking charge of transatlantic data exchange above member state co-operation. this particular motion for a resolution we loosely support in the sense that it does empower citizens against the very ‘flexible’ data protection laws of the us. therefore we voted against the original green motion for a resolution based on the principle that this should be done by member states and not the eu. but we abstained on certain amendments that were tabled because it does protect citizens from very loose data protection standards from the us.
in writing. ‒ ukip are principally against the eu taking charge of transatlantic data exchange above member state co-operation. this particular motion for a resolution we loosely support in the sense that it does empower citizens against the very ‘flexible’ data protection laws of the us. therefore we voted against the original green motion for a resolution based on the principle that this should be done by member states and not the eu. but we abstained on certain amendments that were tabled because it does protect citizens from very loose data protection standards from the us.
in writing. ‒ ukip are principally against the eu taking charge of transatlantic data exchange above member state cooperation. this particular motion for a resolution we loosely support in the sense that it does empower citizens against the very ‘flexible’ data protection laws of the us. therefore we voted against the original green motion for a resolution based on the principle that this should be done by member states and not the eu. but we abstained on certain amendments that were tabled because it does protect citizens from very loose data protection standards from the us.
in writing. – ukip are principally against the eu taking charge of transatlantic data exchange above member state cooperation. this particular motion for a resolution we loosely support in the sense that it does empower citizens against the very ‘flexible’ data protection laws of the us. therefore we voted against the original green motion for a resolution based on the principle that this should be done by member states and not the eu. but we abstained on certain amendments that were tabled because it does protect citizens from very loose data protection standards from the us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for recommendations in the retail energy market to bring energy prices down, enhance transparency, empower consumers, democratise the energy system and protect the most vulnerable. energy should be considered as a social right: currently, over 50 million are living in energy poverty in the eu – around 2.3 million in the uk. we need to take action at the eu level so that people do not have to choose between heating, eating or cooling and do not pay more for energy because they are unable to insulate their homes.
in writing. ‒ ukip are principally against the eu taking charge of transatlantic data exchange above member state cooperation. this particular motion for a resolution we loosely support in the sense that it does empower citizens against the very ‘flexible’ data protection laws of the us. therefore we voted against the original green motion for a resolution based on the principle that this should be done by member states and not the eu. but we abstained on certain amendments that were tabled because it does protect citizens from very loose data protection standards from the us.
in writing. ‒ ukip are principally against the eu taking charge of transatlantic data exchange above member state cooperation. this particular motion for a resolution we loosely support in the sense that it does empower citizens against the very ‘flexible’ data protection laws of the us. therefore we voted against the original green motion for a resolution based on the principle that this should be done by member states and not the eu. but we abstained on certain amendments that were tabled because it does protect citizens from very loose data protection standards from the us.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as ukip are principally against the eu taking charge of transatlantic data exchange above member state co-operation. this particular motion for resolution we loosely support in the sense that it does empower citizens against the very ‘flexible’ data protection laws of the us. therefore we voted against the original green motion for resolution based on the principal that this should be done by member states and not the eu. but, we abstained on certain amendments that were tabled because it does protect citizens from very loose data protection standards from the us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was expertly put together by my socialist colleague birgit sippel. i am happy to have such a regime with the us, however it needs to respect the new data protection acquis of the eu and be completely legally watertight.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because it welcomes the efforts made by the commission and the us administration to achieve substantial improvements in the privacy shield compared to the safe harbour decision, in particular the insertion of key definitions such as ‘personal data’, ‘processing’ and ‘controller’, the mechanisms set up to ensure oversight of the privacy shield list, and the now mandatory external and internal reviews of compliance. i also welcome from this resolution the appointment of an ombudsperson in the us department of state, who will work together with independent authorities to provide a response to the eu supervisory authorities, channelling individual requests in relation to government surveillance. i consider, however, that this new institution is not sufficiently independent and is not vested with adequate powers to effectively exercise and enforce its duty.
mr president, energy poverty is a blight on the lives of over 50 million europeans. across our continent people are struggling with the cost of heating their homes and this is unacceptable. in my constituency this has an impact on one in ten households. no one should have to turn off their heating during the depths of winter and no one should have to choose between heating and eating. i welcome the report from my fellow labour mep, theresa griffin. this report is an important step forward in our efforts to solve some of these issues and, if implemented, will provide a range of measures to tackle the root causes of energy poverty. i welcome the empowerment of consumers, providing opportunities for consumers to find the most appropriate deal for them and move away from unsuitable tariffs. i am appalled today that tory and ukip meps voted against a ban on unfair commercial practices and concrete actions for the most vulnerable consumers. this is not the way to deal with energy poverty. theresa’s report sets out a clear plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i object to any eu legislation in this field. i believe that in order to alleviate energy poverty, the uk should make its own energy policy and invest in low-cost reliable energy sources such as nuclear.
in writing. – we are against the report because we object new eu legislation in this field. we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ we are against the report because we object new eu legislation in this field. we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ we are against the report because we object new eu legislation in this field. we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. – we are against the report because we object new eu legislation in this field. we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for europe’s citizens to have access to affordable and sustainable energy and i welcome that call. in this regard, scotland is an energy pioneer with almost 60% of electricity consumed in 2015 coming from renewable sources. last year the scottish government invested ukp 2.5 million in our power energy, an independent energy supply company operating on a non-profit distributing basis – and i commend initiatives such as this to the house.
in writing. ‒ energy policy must, like all eu policies, take social aspects into account and contribute to fighting poverty and social exclusion. i therefore supported the report as it calls for the end of termination fees so that consumers can switch to a cheaper supplier at no cost. we want straightforward bills that contain consumer-empowering information. we want energy regulators to work with energy suppliers and price-comparison organisations to deliver information directly to consumers.
in writing. ‒ we are against the report because we object new eu legislation in this field. we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ we are against the report because we object new eu legislation in this field. we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i believe the uk should be responsible for its own energy policy.
in writing. ‒ hundreds of thousands of people across the west midlands are being kept on outdated energy contracts and are made to pay large termination fees when switching to a cheaper supplier. that’s why today, i voted in the european parliament to end of termination fees so consumers can switch to a cheaper supplier without cost. i want to see straight-forward bills that contain consumer-empowering information. also, i want to add that this report is an example of some of the great work by my friend and fellow labour mep, theresa griffin, proving how vital uk meps are to the eu.
in writing. ‒ as a conservative mep, i share the fundamental aims underlying the perspective new energy deal for eu citizens – that it should be fair on consumers, protect them from energy poverty and promote competition in the sector (as such, i support the provision of clear price information which enables eu consumers to shop around for cheaper energy prices). however, i found certain draft amendments in the itre report problematic, specifically with the prescribed definition of ‘energy poverty’. conservatives believe that a loose and non-binding definition could be agreed. yet any attempts to set a binding definition would be unhelpful, as it must be up to each member state to decide what ‘energy poverty’ looks like nationally, based on their own calculation of low income and the reasonable cost of energy. a number of further provisions called for in the report have an established basis in the third energy package, and are therefore unnecessary – we must focus on implementing existing legislation more efficiently, rather than duplication. likewise, i could not support proposals in the report that are tantamount to price regulation, or an eu-wide ban on doorstep selling. as such, i voted against the griffin report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which calls for recommendations in the retail energy market to bring energy prices down, enhance transparency, empower consumers, democratise the energy system and protect the most vulnerable. energy should be considered a social right: currently, over 50 million are living in energy poverty in the eu – around 2.3 million in the uk. we need to take action at the eu level so that people do not have to choose between heating, eating and cooling and do not pay more for energy because they are unable to insulate their homes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it contained some very progressive and positive provisions. my colleague lynn boylan proposed the introduction of paid domestic violence leave in europe through an opinion she recently authored in the european parliament’s employment and social affairs committee, and key aspects of this opinion were incorporated in this vote. the report included a provision where paid leave for survivors of domestic violence would become a right. this is a valuable new idea that has been introduced in australia and the us, and this week’s vote is the first time the european parliament has called for its introduction in europe. i am very pleased that my party sinn féin has successfully placed this proposal firmly on the agenda of the european parliament, and sinn féin will call on irish policymakers to take this on board immediately and act to introduce this leave in ireland.
in writing. ‒ this report is patronising and degrading towards woman. the uk already had laws defending women’s rights and gender equality before it joined the ecc in 1973. it is not for the eu to criticise national parliament’s budgets and it certainly shouldn’t be allowed to interfere in uk education policy.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course believes more should be done to fight poverty and protect people against discrimination and violence. however this report went on to call for many things that were completely unacceptable. strong criticism of eu austerity policies which has devastated countries such as greece was removed from the report. the report called for a reversal in the burden of proof, which would rip up uk law on innocent until proven guilty. there was a call for further eu steps and assessment of minimum income schemes in member states - the eu has no right to interfere in the uk’s minimum wage or other tax policies. the report called for interference in education policy at eu level. it also called for interference with national procedures on the recognition of refugee status. finally the eu parliament voted to remove text which called for a reduced rate on essential goods for women such as tampons. for all these reasons ukip had no choice but to oppose this report. the only people that should decide such matters are our own elected national governments, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course believes more should be done to fight poverty and protect people against discrimination and violence. however this report went on to call for many things that were completely unacceptable. strong criticism of eu austerity policies which has devastated countries such as greece was removed from the report. the report called for a reversal in the burden of proof, which would rip up uk law on innocent until proven guilty. there was a call for further eu steps and assessment of minimum income schemes in member states - the eu has no right to interfere in the uk’s minimum wage or other tax policies. the report called for interference in education policy at eu level. it also called for interference with national procedures on the recognition of refugee status. finally the eu parliament voted to remove text which called for a reduced rate on essential goods for women such as tampons. for all these reasons ukip had no choice but to oppose this report. the only people that should decide such matters are our own elected national governments, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course believes more should be done to fight poverty and protect people against discrimination and violence. however this report went on to call for many things that were completely unacceptable. strong criticism of eu austerity policies which has devastated countries such as greece was removed from the report. the report called for a reversal in the burden of proof, which would rip up uk law on innocent until proven guilty. there was a call for further eu steps and assessment of minimum income schemes in member states - the eu has no right to interfere in the uk’s minimum wage or other tax policies. the report called for interference in education policy at eu level. it also called for interference with national procedures on the recognition of refugee status. finally the eu parliament voted to remove text which called for a reduced rate on essential goods for women such as tampons. for all these reasons ukip had no choice but to oppose this report. the only people that should decide such matters are our own elected national governments, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course believes more should be done to fight poverty and protect people against discrimination and violence. however this report went on to call for many things that were completely unacceptable. strong criticism of eu austerity policies which has devastated countries such as greece was removed from the report. the report called for a reversal in the burden of proof, which would rip up uk law on innocent until proven guilty. there was a call for further eu steps and assessment of minimum income schemes in member states - the eu has no right to interfere in the uk’s minimum wage or other tax policies. the report called for interference in education policy at eu level. it also called for interference with national procedures on the recognition of refugee status. finally the eu parliament voted to remove text which called for a reduced rate on essential goods for women such as tampons. for all these reasons ukip had no choice but to oppose this report. the only people that should decide such matters are our own elected national governments, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ as figures from eurostat show, there are 7 million more women than men living in poverty in the eu. sadly, what tends to happen is that poverty is cyclical, being ‘passed on’ to the next generations. i voted in favour of this report, and with colleagues in my socialist group call for the use of eu funds to invest in social infrastructure such as childcare and better work/life arrangements, and to ensure that women can join or stay in the job market.
in writing. ‒ poverty in the eu affects 65 million women, compared to 57 million men. i voted in favour of this report as it is clear that women need more targeted support in the fight to end poverty.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights a number of important issues. in my own country, the scottish government has highlighted the pay gap between the genders and is committed to eliminating it. the government won last month’s general election with a pledge to increase childcare provision and this policy will further help to eradicate poverty in the country.
in writing. ‒ poverty hits women more than men: today, in the eu some 65 million women are concerned compared to 57 million men. i voted in favour of the report as it points out the causes that bring women into poverty and gives recommendations to the commission and the member states on how to tackle the effects of female poverty.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course believes more should be done to fight poverty and protect people against discrimination and violence. however this report went on to call for many things that were completely unacceptable. strong criticism of eu austerity policies which has devastated countries such as greece was removed from the report. the report called for a reversal in the burden of proof, which would rip up uk law on innocent until proven guilty. there was a call for further eu steps and assessment of minimum income schemes in member states - the eu has no right to interfere in the uk’s minimum wage or other tax policies. the report called for interference in education policy at eu level. it also called for interference with national procedures on the recognition of refugee status. finally the eu parliament voted to remove text which called for a reduced rate on essential goods for women such as tampons. for all these reasons ukip had no choice but to oppose this report. the only people that should decide such matters are our own elected national governments, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non legislative, non-binding report. ukip of course believes more should be done to fight poverty and protect people against discrimination and violence. however this report went on to call for many things that were completely unacceptable. strong criticism of eu austerity policies which has devastated countries such as greece was removed from the report. the report called for a reversal in the burden of proof, which would rip up uk law on innocent until proven guilty. there was a call for further eu steps and assessment of minimum income schemes in member states - the eu has no right to interfere in the uk’s minimum wage or other tax policies. the report called for interference in education policy at eu level. it also called for interference with national procedures on the recognition of refugee status. finally the eu parliament voted to remove text which called for a reduced rate on essential goods for women such as tampons. for all these reasons ukip had no choice but to oppose this report. the only people that should decide such matters are our own elected national governments, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i believe the uk has a good record in this area and i do not believe the eu should be making policy for the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which addresses one of the most over-looked and crucial aspects to poverty prolongation. women are the first victims of the austerity policies and the economic crises. this is passed on to their children and creates a poverty cycle to the next generation. the socialists in this place call for the use of eu instruments to invest in social infrastructure and allow for better work/life arrangements, to ensure that women stay in or join the labour market, breaking down this vicious circle of poverty that we see all too often.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the member states and the commission to develop and use the available policy and financial instruments, including the social investment package, in order to meet the barcelona objectives. in this context, it also calls for the european social fund (esf) and the european regional development fund (erdf) to be optimised, for priority to be given, in the use of social investments and the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) regulation, to the establishment of public and private facilities for care of and assistance to children and other dependent persons. finally, the report proposes that the commission allocates specific resources, through a co-financing mechanism, to promote incentives for specific areas where there is a shortage of ecec facilities and where the female employment rate is extremely low.
in writing. ‒ this report raised concerns that the free movement of goods and services was being hampered by what are deemed as unjustified national technical rules and other regulatory and non-regulatory requirements. however, this is a mere masquerade as to what is a direct assault on a member state’s autonomy. each member state should have the right to regulate their own economy and any further depletions of a national government’s economic competencies by the eu will be challenged by my party.
in writing. ‒ i voted against a report which calls for further harmonisation within the single market. much of what is considered to be a non-tariff barrier appears upon closer examination to be subsidiarity. for example, member states should be able to set their own insolvency rules. it’s not an unfair barrier for a firm in one country to be unable to compete in another without learning the nuances of that country’s individual legal system.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. whilst we agree that there are non-tariff barriers in the single market, we do not agree with the parliament approach to dealing with them. more specifically, we are against the further harmonisation of single market rules and we believe many future eu approaches to rectify could breach the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. whilst we agree that there are non-tariff barriers in the single market, we do not agree with the parliament approach to dealing with them. more specifically, we are against the further harmonisation of single market rules and we believe many future eu approaches to rectify could breach the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. whilst we agree that there are non-tariff barriers in the single market, we do not agree with the parliament approach to dealing with them. more specifically, we are against the further harmonisation of single market rules and we believe many future eu approaches to rectify could breach the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. whilst we agree that there are non-tariff barriers in the single market, we do not agree with the parliament approach to dealing with them. more specifically, we are against the further harmonisation of single market rules and we believe many future eu approaches to rectify could breach the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ this report identifies cases where non-tariff barriers to internal trade have come about as a result of individual member state’s policies. many member states have introduced barriers in areas not subject to european regulation and this report concludes that such barriers constitute an obstacle to trade when they are not justified, recommending the commission to take action. i support the work of my colleague in finding ways to improve the functioning of the single market and voted in favour of this report
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it applies the external trade concept on non-tariff barriers (e.g. unjustified national technical rules and regulatory and non-regulatory requirements governing products, service providers and terms of service provision, or bureaucracy) inside the eu, looking at remaining obstacles to the completion of the single market as ntbs and calling for their removal
in writing. ‒ the provisions of this report risk re-introducing the country of origin principle to services which we fought so hard again during the passage of the services directive some years ago. it also fails to adequately call for the protection of public services and i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it applies the external trade concept on non-tariff barriers (e.g. unjustified national technical rules and regulatory and non-regulatory requirements governing products, service providers and terms of service provision, or bureaucracy) inside the eu, looking at remaining obstacles to the completion of the single market as ntbs and calling for their removal.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. whilst we agree that there are non-tariff barriers in the single market, we do not agree with the parliament approach to dealing with them. more specifically, we are against the further harmonisation of single market rules and we believe many future eu approaches to rectify could breach the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ ukip mep have voted against this non-legislative report. whilst we agree that there are non-tariff barriers in the single market, we do not agree with the parliament approach to dealing with them. more specifically, we are against the further harmonisation of single market rules and we believe many future eu approaches to rectify could breach the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ ukip mep’s have voted against this non-legislative report. whilst the fact of the matter is that there are non-tariff barriers in the single market, we do not agree with the parliament approach to dealing with them. in particular, we are against the further harmonisation of single market rules and we believe many future eu approaches to rectify issues will breach the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased with how this report developed in committee. we were able to achieve a clear recognition of the full respect of the right to regulate in the interest of the public and have the report contain explicit mentions of the importance of public services and the fact that related legislation does not constitute a non-tariff barrier. the main challenge of this report was to get a definition for non-tariff barriers that all sides could agree on, and i am happy that we have gone some way in achieving that.
in writing. – my colleagues in the labour party and i voted in favour of this report because it realises that despite the removal of tariff barriers (ntbs) since 1 july 1968, the free movement of goods and services has continued to be hampered by ntbs such as unjustified national technical rules and regulatory and non-regulatory requirements governing products. it also highlights that the strengthening of the single market requires urgent action at both the eu and member state levels to address such ntbs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which contained some very regressive and negative provisions. it is an alarming report which promotes austerity policies in addition to further transfers of sovereignty from national parliaments to the european union. the view of my party sinn féin is that the solution to the ongoing economic and financial crisis is not to continue with the same policies that have created this crisis, but a policy that puts the needs of people first and not those of the market. the single market strategy promotes a neo liberal strategy, which endorses austerity policies. the austerity measures being applied by undemocratic means in the eu countries worst hit by the crisis reflect the failure of the eu’s neoliberal architecture. sinn féin are working in europe to urgently reverse this policy and deliver solidarity and job creation within an economic system that serves people not profit. the single market and competitiveness have been used as arguments to justify attacks on workers’ rights, social inequalities, labour deregulation, wage devaluation and increasingly precarious employment, while fairer, more redistributive tax policies have been obstructed. austerity is avoidable; it is a political choice that puts the interests of some above the interests of others.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not believe that further harmonisation of legislation is either necessary or desirable. i wish to highlight my abstention on the original text of paragraph 106, which praises the principle of equal pay for equal work. i support that principle, of course. i do not support the addition of the text ‘as advocated by juncker’ (why single out the political views of any individual in a parliamentary report?), nor is it an important tool with which to fight market distortions; it is, in fact, an important tool with which to fight discrimination. so whilst supporting the sentiment of that paragraph, i cannot vote for the text as written.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip fundamentally disagrees with the report, which criticises member states for not transposing eu legislation. moreover, we also strongly disagree with calls for further harmonisation and legislative proposals from the commission. ukip believes that the main problem with the single market is over-regulation, which damages smes causing higher prices and less choice for the consumer.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip fundamentally disagrees with the report, which criticises member states for not transposing eu legislation. moreover, we also strongly disagree with calls for further harmonisation and legislative proposals from the commission. ukip believes that the main problem with the single market is over-regulation, which damages smes causing higher prices and less choice for the consumer.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip fundamentally disagrees with the report, which criticises member states for not transposing eu legislation. moreover, we also strongly disagree with calls for further harmonisation and legislative proposals from the commission. ukip believes that the main problem with the single market is over-regulation, which damages smes causing higher prices and less choice for the consumer.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip fundamentally disagrees with the report, which criticises member states for not transposing eu legislation. moreover, we also strongly disagree with calls for further harmonisation and legislative proposals from the commission. ukip believes that the main problem with the single market is over-regulation, which damages smes causing higher prices and less choice for the consumer.
in writing. ‒ my colleagues and i support much of the single market strategy, which this report largely endorses. i am pleased that some of the more contentious issues in the report, such as vat for e-commerce and non-agricultural gis, were subject to separate votes. i am pleased that significant improvements came out of the negotiations on the final report and that these have been included. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which offers a new, comprehensive vision for the single market which is rooted in a green, knowledge-based social market economy. the report contains proposals for practical measures, such as the need to guarantee social inclusion and equal treatment; the provision of sustainable jobs and growth as well as ensuring that consumers are protected to a high degree.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this comprehensive strategy on the single market which seeks to improve the well-being of european citizens by proposing practical measures that need to guarantee equal treatment and social inclusion, creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high level consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against paragraph 54 which states that the benefits of public-private partnerships have not been fully realised. last month, 17 schools in edinburgh were forced to close and thousands of pupils were affected. all of these schools were built under private finance initiatives signed off under the previous labour government and they stand testimony to the real effects of ppp.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it calls for a genuinely strategic approach for the further integration of the single market. new holistic vision on the single market based on green knowledge-based social market economy will improve the well—being of european citizens by proposing practical measures that need to guarantee equal treatment and social inclusion, creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high level of consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip fundamentally disagrees with the report which criticises member states for not transposing eu legislation. moreover, we also strongly disagree with calls for further harmonisation and legislative proposals from the commission. ukip believes that the main problem with the single market is over-regulation which damages smes causing higher prices and less choice for the consumer.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip fundamentally disagrees with the report which criticises member states for not transposing eu legislation. moreover, we also strongly disagree with calls for further harmonisation and legislative proposals from the commission. ukip believes that the main problem with the single market is over-regulation which damages smes causing higher prices and less choice for the consumer.
in writing. ‒ ukip mep’s have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip fundamentally disagrees with the report which criticises member states for not transposing eu legislation. moreover, we also strongly disagree with calls for further harmonisation and legislative proposals from the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this strategy which delivers a new holistic vision of the single market based on green, knowledge-based social market economy which seeks to improve the well-being of european citizens by proposing practical measures that need to guarantee equal treatment and social inclusion, creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high level consumer protection.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because it supports the overall objectives of the commission’s single market strategy for goods and services: ‘upgrading the single market: more opportunities for people and business’, and appreciates its actions in key areas to unleash the full potential of the single market for the benefit of consumers, employees and businesses, in particular start-ups, to increase the number of sustainable jobs and to grow and develop smes; encourages the commission to develop cross-cutting policies designed to achieve a fairer and more competitive single market in line with title ii of the tfeu on provisions having a general application.
blue-card question. – my question is simply this. i completely understand where you are coming from in suggesting that pharmaceutical companies are charging incredibly high prices for antiretrovirals, and i further understand where you are coming from in saying that this has an impact on the fight against hiv and aids. what i would like to know more about is what specifically you suggest that the united nations should do about this problem at the high level meeting at the end of this week?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr preda for the report and for finding consensus on it. i just want to focus on one aspect of policy coherence for development: that is tax issues. mr preda mentioned the agreement on the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and that, of course, was underpinned by the agreement on the financing for development. a big part of that is domestic resource mobilisation by developing countries, but we will not achieve that unless we see big changes in the international tax system: unless we close down tax loopholes and illicit financial flows. thabo mbeki came to the committee on development a few weeks ago and he told us how staggering amounts of money leak out of africa into tax havens and into european bank accounts. this has to stop, and that is why we have a chance in this parliament to vote to change these rules: to make sure that african countries, and other developing countries, can raise their own financing for development, and to make sure that we have this special committee on the panama papers, so that policy coherence for development is much more than a box-ticking exercise, and leads to genuine change.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, we all do indeed have a human duty. there are 1.5 billion people in this world who are still living in poverty, who are deprived in ways that we in the west can only imagine. we have a human duty to do what we can to help, but to me this report is far from ideal in terms of identifying the problems at european union level, and also in terms of seeking what solutions we should adopt. the discussion of migration and development seems to spectacularly fail to take into account the way that the european union has, in my view, mismanaged the refugee crisis from start to finish. the problems that arose are problems which could reasonably have been foreseen at the time, and which many of us did in fact foresee and said on the record, in this place, at the time. it seems to me that this report is pushing towards greater eu, more eu control. for example, it mentions common asylum and immigration policy. i just wonder, if people in the united kingdom actually knew that there were moves in this place towards a common asylum and immigration policy, how that would impact on their views on 23 june? where i do agree with the report is to say that aid alone is not sufficient, because a lot of assisting development in developing countries is actually about developing through trade. it is actually about eliminating tariff barriers of which, sadly, we still all too often have too many at eu level. it is about bringing down tariff barriers and it is about helping countries through free and fair trade. i would take issue as well with the report in its mention of a financial transaction tax. i see that as something that is hugely unconnected to the development issue and something which again would go down very badly indeed within the united kingdom. so i would say that whilst i agree with the principle of the human duty that we have, this report has spectacularly failed to achieve what it should have achieved. the uk is actually quite efficient compared with other eu countries in this regard, and my fear is that we end up being brought down to the lowest common denominator.
mr president, i was glad to get here in time for catch-the-eye. i did mean to speak on this earlier but i got held up with the trains. i have just come back from the debate in the uk where we have been talking about potential brexit, and one of the things under discussion was whether or not the uk is subject to ‘closer union’. all countries need to have development policy, of course, but when you have policies for coherence of development within the eu, it is quite clear that this is just one of the many areas where, despite the words of mr cameron and his crew of eu fanatics, if you are in the eu then of course you are going to be subject to closer cohesion on a whole range of policies, and to ever-closer union. whether or not the words are said does not matter: you are subject to it. so, as with so many of the things that mr cameron says, i will be warning people that when he says one thing he actually means another.
mr president, there is nothing more incoherent than the prospect of britain withdrawing from the european union and starting to compete with other aid donors in a way which would be wasteful and counter-productive. the british influence in european development efforts has helped leverage greater commitment to the un 0.7% gnp aid target, to untying aid, and now to mainstreaming the un sustainable development goals. in my own east of england constituency, i am proud to represent the fair trade organisation banana link in norwich, a development education centre in colchester, and to support students from developing countries through the cambridge trust. development groups like global justice uk in watford rightly question us about the development impact of ttip. those in britain who support international development recognise that we live on a common planet, they recognise the importance of international cooperation and see the advantages of working together. they see it not as a choice between working together in europe and in the wider world, but of both being mutually reinforcing. the case for international development is for britain to remain in the european union.
blue-card question. – this, of course, is an issue which is broader than a european union issue; it is an international issue. you have said quite a lot about what you want the commission to do in this case. you have also mentioned the international atomic energy agency (iaea). i am just wondering, as you did not give any concrete suggestions, what you would like the iaea to do on this. can you give me any suggestions for what it could do, more than it has done already?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the iaea monitors nuclear energy development throughout the world under the auspices of the un. this is a clear case of the eu building up its part. if belarus is developing an industry that concerns its neighbours, that is a matter they should refer to the iaea and the un. obviously, belarus, and any other country that wishes to develop a nuclear industry, should be subject to existing international rules. i personally support more nuclear power in the uk, and expect all of our developments to be subject to iaea rules as well – just like any other country. sovereign states should be free to develop their countries as they wish so long as they operate within accepted international law. if international law is broken it is a matter for the un. the eu is hungry for influence and power. trade and economic cooperation is the excuse for the existence of the eu, not the reason. not content with intervening in the lives of its citizens, this organisation is desperate to intervene with the policies of its neighbours. each of you, as nation states, should support the iaea and refrain from the temptation to intervene and interfere with the business of sovereign independent states. use existing international law and, if it is broken, use the un. these are the conventions that, as sovereign nations, we should all respect and we should use. there is no requirement for the eu to build up what it does, to act as a single entity, as a quasi-superpower, as a federal state. there is no need for this. we have laws; we have bodies to enforce them. if those laws are being broken on such an important issue as nuclear power, then let us use the united nations; let us use the existing authorities and let us ensure that our people are properly protected in the correct manner without allowing political ambitions and political manoeuvrings to interfere in any way.
mr president, i must say i am very sad that mr etheridge has left the debating chamber and shown absolutely no interest in this serious debate. he shows himself up to be extremely ignorant, suggesting that we should all rely only on un international laws to keep us safe. does he not know that the most powerful nation in the world, the usa, does not endorse the un's international court of justice? so where would that leave us, mr etheridge? i thank goodness for the vigilance of the eu. i am very glad that parliament has decided to debate the safety of nuclear plants in belarus. belarus must certainly carry out all the environmental impact assessments and stress tests required by international agreements, and reassure all of its neighbours that the wider environment and citizens across the region and beyond are safe - and that includes me and mr etheridge. there is, however, a broader point at hand. nuclear power carries with it risks and potential costs that are hard to assess and estimate. the humanitarian and environmental catastrophe that would occur in the case of a serious accident is terrible to contemplate, and i have seen first-hand the devastated lives of the fukushima survivors - bereaved, bereft, suffering mental health problems, and in the case of many children unable even to play outdoors for fear of contamination. so since being elected i have worked together with nuclear transparency watch, a network founded, after a call by this very european parliament for greater nuclear security following the fukushima disaster in 2011. i would like to emphasise that we must continuously strive for greater nuclear safety and transparency and support the civil society organisations who work in the field to advance that transparency. the nuclear power industry is a big player in the energy industry, with huge subsidies from the public purse. it therefore has a duty to work closely with host communities and nuclear transparency watch to ensure that the plants are operating to the highest standards.
mr president, of course the situation in belarus with regard to nuclear power is something which does need to be monitored at an international level and it is important – imperative even – to ensure that all safeguards are met. just to clarify from earlier on in the debate that there is a broader point of principle which we were also making in this debate, which is to say that there are international organisations other than the european union of which we are fully supportive. in this case, the iaea and the united nations play a very significant role just as, in a wider context across over policy issues, we could say that the g7, the g20, nato, the imf, the international organization for standardization, the world trade organization, the oecd, interpol and so many others, are organisations that we want to be a part of – and yet in the uk the debate continues to focus on this one area of the european union, as we are told we would be isolated if we were not in it. so there is a broader issue of principle here, as well as the specific situation in belarus.
mr president, i thank maria and her colleagues in the committee on development for this report, which is a prime example of the eu standing up to big business. i also thank the hundreds of constituents who emailed me with their concerns about the outdated model of agricultural development promoted by the g7’s so—called new alliance for food security and nutrition. in such an initiative, nutrition should be the logical starting point, but this is not so. instead, nutrition comes second to opportunities for industrial agribusinesses with no focus on healthy food but rather on agricultural commodities, which of course require monocultures. this increases input dependency and land degradation. crucially, this parliament report argues that the new alliance must allow farmers to avoid input dependency. there will not be food sovereignty if farmers are beholden to corporations for their seeds and then brought into vicious circles of pesticide and fertilizer use. we should support farmers’ seed systems which maintain agro—biodiversity.
mr president, i would like to commend the rapporteur for a lot of what she says about the new alliance for food security and nutrition. there are a lot of positives in this report, and specifically comments about things which could be improved within the nafsn. i would like to draw out three points. firstly, i agree completely with notis marias that there must be no interference with sovereignty of developing nations. secondly, i share the concerns with regard to big multinationals playing too great a role in planning agricultural development and therefore the impact that has on smaller farmers and their right to have a say. thirdly, i would just take issue with the comment that the eu and its member states are the biggest giver of aid. well, if you take 28 countries and put all of those numbers together then of course it is going to be bigger than any one individual.
madam president, i think sometimes the words ‘avoidance’ and ‘evasion’ get a little lost in translation. there is certainly a spectrum from at one end, say, a plumber who uses his van for work, who decides whether it is appropriate to claim for wear and tear on a vehicle or on a mileage basis. i think few would argue that this is something we really need to stamp out of society. i think people would say it is perfectly legitimate for that plumber to choose how he goes about doing things. but then you move on to multinationals which aggressively employ teams of accountants, and i think we want to root out that kind of aggressive tax avoidance. and then of course there is evasion, which is completely breaking the law. i think, when things get lost in translation like that, the idea of this one-size-fits-all legislation across 28 different legal systems starts to fall apart a little bit. that is the concern that i have about eu-imposed country-by-country public reporting, which could prove to be counterproductive.
rapporteur. – madam president, when i set out to write this report, my aim was to have an end product that reflected the reality of the situation and was useful. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and efforts in helping to achieve this. i believe we have a report that is strongly supported across parliament. it deals with a critical issue bearing on so many current concerns in our countries. we have seen flows of refugees and economic migrants, as well as the terrorist threat, increasing – and, by the time these problems are on the doorstep of europe, it is too late. it is therefore in our interest not only to put our own houses in order so that we reduce the pull factors and our own vulnerabilities, but also to help the african countries, in particular, to deal with their problems. it is thus in all our interests for african countries, and the african union in particular, to do more to create peace and stability on their continent, but they need help to achieve this, particularly in building capacity. a key priority is to make the african standby force operational and really effective as soon as possible. this requires stronger political will and engagement from the african countries themselves, more advocacy by us in african capitals and practical assistance by our member states and – in terms of funding and civil resources – by the eu itself. so often, parliament’s reports give the impression that the eu alone is shouldering the world’s problems. this is far from the truth. we need to recognise the efforts of the united nations, the african union, the united states and nato, as well as many individual european countries, in addition to the excellent contribution from the eu itself. the eu must also avoid duplicating the work of others. there needs to be greater cooperation and communication between all those involved. given the scale of the challenges and the complex involvement of other organisations and nations, the eu should seek an appropriate division of labour, focusing on where it can best add value, including through support to operations by individual member states. there is probably sufficient funding available to africa and for peace support operations. it is a question of how it is spent. there is a requirement for greater transparency and accountability in order to give assurance about appropriate spending. we have a duty to ensure funds are not abused or wasted. the eu should focus its efforts: it needs to prioritise. there are a great many issues to be dealt with and it would be most effective to be selective in the ones we attempt to tackle. our engagement over the years in helping overcome the problem of anti-personnel landmines, which have been such a threat in post-conflict development, is a case in point. i do not happen to believe that promotion of the common security and defence policy (csdp) agenda is the right focus. others are better able to provide military support. the eu can be useful in other ways. i therefore do not support the references to the csdp that have been made through amendments to my report in committee. in order for peace support operations (psos) in africa to be effective in bringing about real change, there must be a consistent drive towards a more coordinated response by all international actors. the un must carry the main responsibility for external military intervention, but the african union must increasingly take the regional lead, supported by the most capable of our nations, as well as by the united states, nato and the eu as appropriate. enhanced international collaboration, appropriate division of labour and a continued emphasis on african capability and responsibility must be our priorities. the needs of the african countries concerned and the security and cohesion of our own countries should be the overall guiding principles for eu involvement.
madam president, commission president juncker famously said that a european army will be necessary in the long run. this report, written by a british conservative mep, does not support a common security and defence policy. it is pro-eu enough in a lot of ways, because it talks about strengthening eu military cooperation, but it stops short and deliberately does not support a common security and defence policy. and of course what we have in this chamber is amendment after amendment putting all of those things back in, because the european union wants to move inexorably in that direction, towards a european army. so if anyone is in any doubt that that is the direction of travel, all you need do is look at the amendments to this report.
rapporteur. – madam president, let me start by saying how much i have really appreciated the support and cooperation of all the groups and the shadows in producing this report. it is estimated that there will be nearly 2.5 billion more people on the planet by 2050 than there are today, so satisfying the demand for safe, healthy and nutritious food is one of the biggest challenges facing our world. land availability is shrinking; we have environmental degradation, shortages of water and increased energy demand, not to mention the emergence of new pests and diseases – all of which are putting real pressure on the natural environment. so we need to develop technological solutions not only to increase production, but to improve the means of distribution and to tackle food waste, and the benefits of innovative technologies need to be applicable and available to all our farmers whether they are conventional or organic, livestock or arable, small scale or large scale. concern about food security has brought a new focus to public sector research and development in recent years, but european agriculture continues to trail behind many of its international competitors. what we need is sustained and prioritised investment in applied and translational research. not enough research is commercialised, and that means that farmers are not able to take advantage of the opportunities that innovation could provide, take precision farming, for example. my report calls on the commission and the member states to work in partnership to improve the performance and adaptability of pf techniques. agriculture accounts for 70% of the world’s freshwater use – 70%. now this can be significantly reduced by the use of precision irrigation techniques. my report welcomes the inclusion of pf robotics in horizon 2020 and encourages the uptake of gps-driven machinery and drones. it welcomes the development of controlled traffic farming technologies which reduce soil damage. it welcomes efforts to integrate high-resolution remote sensing technology into organic farming. the report also covers the need for continuous progress in innovative breeding aimed at increasing not only the range of pest- and disease-resistant traits in crops, but also the range of food raw materials with nutritional and health beneficial characteristics on the market. the loss of genetic diversity over the past century threatens our food and feed security, so all plant varieties, animal species, land races, wild and semi-wild relatives, they are all essential for maintaining genetic diversity. and we should be encouraging an open and transparent dialogue among the stakeholders and the public on responsible development of high-precision innovative solutions for breeding programmes, including risks, hazards and benefits. we need to raise awareness and understanding of new techniques among farmers and the general public, and we have to make sure that consumers and farmers are sufficiently educated about new breeding techniques to ensure that open and informed public debate can take place. europe should be a world leader in agricultural technology. farmers are the major stewards of our environment and they need continued access to innovation, new technology and research in order to produce food in a sustainable way. so we need all to work together – the eu and the member states, academia such as harper adams university in my region, the industry, breeders, agro-chemical sectors, all work together to make sure that we have the best research and we translate it practice, from lab to farm to fork. that will unlock a new phase in agricultural innovation in europe.
madam president, the eu faces a plateau in productivity and fertility caused by soil degradation and loss of ecosystem functions. intensive farming and climate change have caused this, so continuing down the same intensive path is not a solution – technical or otherwise. soil health was in the uk news last week as our environmental audit committee argued that cap cross-compliance rules for agricultural soil health need greater scope, force and ambition. so we need more, not less, soil protection. but tory brexiteers, like george eustace, wish to see these rules scrapped. now this report claims to reduce inputs, but then calls for less regulation, the fast-tracking of approvals and so-called ‘enabling implementation’, which may enable agri-businesses to sell more and more quickly, but does little to help farmers, their livelihoods, or the soil. many of these so-called solutions are financially impossible for most farmers caught up in high input costs and low farm gate prices. big businesses’ talk of robotics and satellites is distracting and so far removed from the realities of small farmers that the agri-business lobby and our tory rapporteur really should get back to earth.
madam president, of course post-brexit we will want an agreement with the european union. of course we want to continue improving our technology, including robotic techniques, as mentioned by the rapporteur. of course we want to cooperate in research in a way that is sustainable in the long term. but the problem with the common agricultural policy is that it is just not fit for british farmers. we are already sending pre-accession agriculture funding to turkey. we are putting in eur 4.6 billion and getting eur 2.9 billion back every year from the common agricultural policy. we are not producing enough food ourselves, and of course there is the perennial problem of red tape. so maybe those are just some of the reasons why a recent poll found that 59% of british farmers want to leave the european union.
madam president, as regards the mcintyre report, i think it is one thing to support innovation and new technologies for the agriculture sector, but i think it is quite another thing to do that with rather a disregard for farmers’ independence, environmental sustainability, and european rules on food safety. i am completely in favour of new technologies for agriculture and i am convinced that farmers themselves are very much in favour, too. but i do not understand why modernisation of european agriculture is deemed equal to the genetic modification exceeding the boundaries of the established eu gmo assessment framework; deemed equal to a fast-track approval process for new pesticides, potentially putting human health and the environment at risk; and deemed equal to entrenching a misguided rationale that the eu should feed the world, despite the clear logic in favour of the developing world feeding itself and ensuring its own food sovereignty based on agro-ecological approaches. we need to make clear, and ensure, that the common agricultural policy does not stifle innovation and modern technology; but the process must not compromise human health, environmental sustainability or animal welfare.
madam president, we have the biggest decision for a generation before us in the uk and it is our rights at work that are on the ballot paper. since the 1970s our trade unions have worked in solidarity across europe to fight to secure valuable working rights for all. it was ford’s female workers who symbolised the fight for equal pay, but it was the european court of justice that guaranteed it in 1982. eu health and safety legislation has saved countless british lives. rights like maternity and paternity leave, equal treatment for part-time, full—time and agency workers and the right to paid holiday are all underpinned by eu law, avoiding a race to the bottom. and now the leave campaign wants a flexible britain and a bonfire of red tape and regulation: a bonfire of your rights. don’t give them that chance. please vote to stay in on 23 june.
madam president, the eu needs radical reform, hence sinn féin’s policy of critical engagement. the best interests of irish people are not always best served by eu policies and practices. nor are they best served by taking the north of ireland out of the eu. the north is a net beneficiary of the eu, our farming community benefits through cap and direct payments, our students can travel through europe to study, and our businesses can access a single market of over 500 million potential customers. in addition eu protections guaranteed to workers include equal pay for men and women, protection of holiday hours and maternity rights to name but a few. none of these will be replaced by the british government. if it is brexit the north of ireland will be shackled to britain and partition copper fastened. sinn féin is not a cheerleader of the eu; our interest is always assessing what is in the best interest of the people of ireland. therefore sinn féin is advocating a remain vote.
madam president, the north-east of england has much to gain by staying in the european union and conversely the north-east has much to lose if we are to leave. the benefits of staying are clear. the european union is good for jobs, allowing the north-east access to the world’s largest single market, and the eu is good for investment. as the poorest english region we actually receive more back than we put in. and the eu protects our rights, both as consumers and as workers. the eu keeps us safe – we are now living through the longest period of peace inside the european union since the roman empire – and the eu is good for our environment and countryside, cleaning up our bathing water, protecting our wildlife and helping us to collectively tackle climate change. if we are not careful and we leave the european union, it may well be that the only place you will find a sheep farmer from the hills in the north-east of england will be at beamish open air museum. for the north-east of england and the eu the case is clear; better in, worse out.
madam president, sadly, the dumping of chinese steel continues across europe, with david cameron acting as the ringleader for a small group of irresponsible member states who continue to block the commission’s proposal for fairer tariffs. these would save our steel industries. however, i do have some good news. failing tata steel plants at scarborough and workington have just been bought by the investment company greybull capital for one pound, securing the jobs of 225 people in the town of workington in cumbria, where my office is based, and ultimately safeguarding 4 000 jobs in the supply chain across the uk and france. it is labour meps who continue to expose the tory government’s careless callousness in respect of our proud steelmaking industry. they are working together with labour mps, such as sue hayman, local council leader alan smith, and the trade unions. we all know that the eu works best when mutual cooperation and solidarity prevail between politicians, business leaders and workers.
madam president, there are just 17 days until the uk votes on its membership of the european union. this is a huge decision affecting not just britain’s future but every other member state represented in this parliament. the risks to the uk of leaving are huge: an immediate economic shock and a possible recession; 3.5 million jobs at risk; workplace rights and protections which could be scrapped, and defence and security cooperation weakened. in response to these risks the leave campaign has had no answers. now having lost the arguments on the economy and security they have resorted to scaremongering over immigration. over the past few weeks they have made disgusting and borderline racist claims implying that all immigrants who come to the uk are either criminals or welfare claimants. as an immigrant myself i know that these claims are false and that immigrants make a huge positive contribution to the uk. i also believe that most decent voters in britain know this as well, and they will see through the leave campaign’s lies and will vote to remain on 23 june.
blue-card question. – we saw in the panama papers that there were not very many us companies there mentioned as transferring their profits, and that is obviously because they do not need to because they have their own internal tax havens in the states of delaware and nevada. we as greens published a report recently demonstrating that, so i would like to ask cora whether she would support a proposal to have a withholding tax on such transfers by companies when it is not clear why the transfers are being made and what the implications are in terms of tax.
madam president, the committee’s amendments urge the eu to introduce a common consolidated corporate tax base. this is clearly intended as a move towards a harmonised corporate tax rate. in a free market context, competition is always a good thing, and tax competition between jurisdictions is always, and everywhere, a good thing. any attempt by governments to harmonise taxes is a conspiracy by those governments against the interests of taxpayers. the effect of such tax harmonisation is always to increase taxes, to reduce competitiveness – in this case of european economies – and, ultimately, it is the individual consumer who pays more because these costs are simply passed on. countries with high-tax economies, like socialist france, cannot compete with countries which have lower corporate tax rates, such as ireland. the eu’s solution is to destroy globally competitive business environments because it envies them. if countries like britain want to have a globally competitive environment in which to create business, jobs and wealth, then we must leave an eu which is intent on harmonising taxes. not only that, but in the eu the state is to be given more weapons with which to intimidate ordinary taxpayers. general rules against tax avoidance, as proposed today by the commission, will be difficult to interpret and will consequently give the state a large stick with which to threaten the ordinary taxpayer. these rules will not be used against large corporates, as is claimed, they will be used by the state against those who cannot afford expensive lawyers. it would be better to simplify the tax system so that the taxpayer could be certain of his or her tax liability, rather than add a layer of complexity with anti—avoidance rules which will scare ordinary people away from making sensible investments for the future and into paying more tax than they need to do today. we are also being asked to endorse the committee’s proposal for an eu tax identification number. clearly, the eu is too scared of british public opinion to tell us before our eu referendum, but we can put the pieces of the jigsaw together. the eu wants to tax us directly if we are daft enough to remain. the report recommends an eu-wide withholding tax and an eu exit tax, added to which are proposals in committee for a global register of assets held by individuals. put these things together and you have the necessary building blocks for a wealth tax on citizens. the prospect of a financial transaction tax is also being discussed in working documents aimed at creating a eurozone budget. not content with just its own budget, the eurozone wants to use the eu’s general budget as a means to keep the euro on life support. we know this actually from david cameron’s so—called renegotiation, which attempts to protect the british economy from these costs but will fail to do so. may i end on a positive note? we in britain are about to vote – if the polls are to be believed – to leave the european union so we shall not be troubled by these problems. we we will happily leave you to cope with the problems of your own creation. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, of course, that is the sort of nonsense we expect from the left. the fact is that if you leave politicians to their own devices, they will simply keep increasing and increasing rates of taxation, and the result of that will actually be that they damage the economy: they kill the goose that lays the golden egg and they collect less tax. if i can get one message out into this chamber today, it is that raising tax rates does not increase revenues beyond a certain reasonable limit. if you have tax rates which are too high and you then increase them you reduce the revenues, you have less money for education and health and all those good things that you want. your policy is utterly self-destructive. (exclamations of protest from mr lamberts)
madam president, colleagues in this house may just have noticed that, yes, we do have a referendum coming up in the uk on our eu membership, and i must say when i meet people in my constituency, real people in the south-east of england, they want information. they want to know what the eu does, and they want to know why it might be better or worse for us to be part of a union of 28 countries working together, or to be on our own. i have to say it is hard to think of a more compelling case where collective action works than fighting tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. tax dodging, just like pollution, climate change and international crime, does not respect borders. in fact it thrives in the mismatches that happen when countries do not speak to one another, when they do not cooperate and so helpful little loopholes emerge. we have to take a collaborative approach to tackling this problem if we are ever to succeed, and i am delighted that this is what is happening at eu level. in its proposal for an anti-tax avoidance directive the commission proposes to implement three of the oecd’s recommendations and has introduced a further three recommendations where the eu can and should go further. i welcome this ambition. it should set the templates for how we in the eu tackle tax dodging, leading the way internationally, and setting the example for other jurisdictions to follow. the commission’s original proposal was good, but my s&d colleague hugues bayet has made it even better, more ambitious in its scope and more precise in its definitions of key concepts where ambiguity only serves those who are looking to dodge tax. i am delighted to give hugues’ report my support and i would urge finance ministers like george osborne in ecofin next week to take on board his recommendations and make the anti-tax avoidance directive as ambitious as possible. this is a good step forward and a clear indication that anyone who cares about tackling tax dodging should see that the uk is best placed to carry on the fight by staying in the european union.
madam president, conservative meps support the implementation of the oecd’s anti-base erosion and profit shifting (beps) framework. we support the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning; we support the implementation at eu level of international commitments that our government has entered into. we want to see increased transparency, but we do not support the rapporteur’s ambitions of going far beyond what the oecd is proposing. this report should have focused on the council’s priority of ensuring that taxes are paid where value is generated. instead, the rapporteur seems more interested in looking at the rates at which activities are taxed. that is not our business: rather, it is unwanted interference in the rights of member states to decide on their own tax policies. we do not support a common corporate tax base or the establishment of an eu tax inspectorate, with european tax identification numbers for companies. we need to understand in this house that imposing far stricter rules in the eu than in the rest of the oecd will impact on international investment: it will reduce growth and jobs. by acting through the oecd, we will ensure that member states not only fulfil their obligations, but remain competitive in international markets. we must ensure that multinational companies pay their fair share of taxes. the best way of ensuring that is to keep tax rates low and tax codes simple.
madam president, only the other week i voted in vain to stop the committee from proposing an eu tax identification number. we all know where this is going: the eu wants to tax the british directly, if we are mad enough to stay in. these proposals include an eu-wide withholding tax and an eu tax coherence and coordinating centre. worst of all, we know from the tax committee that the eu wants to create a global register of all assets held by individuals, no doubt in anticipation of an eu wealth tax on all citizens. the last time we had a register of assets was in 1087: the domesday book, imposed by william the conqueror, or william le bâtard. it was so unpopular that it has not been repeated. let us hope that brexit will mean the eu will not get a chance to repeat that mistake in the uk. god help the rest of you! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, that is an interesting proposition, sir, but i do not think that we will be abolishing income tax in the uk. what i think we will do, which this place does not do and the rest of europe does not do, is to minimise tax as much as possible so as to allow citizens to keep as much as possible of their hard-earned money in their pockets. that, i think, is a right. it is a human right to keep most of what you earn in your own pocket. obviously, you have to help the less fortunate and those who are sick, but you should be allowed to keep the fruits of your own labour. that is a human right.
mr president, luxleaks, panama papers and tax avoidance tactics by multinationals – all these revelations demonstrate one thing, that if you are powerful enough and have tax advisors you are not obliged to pay your tax. on the other hand, normal hard-working people and smes have to pay. i am sure that individuals in small organisations pay more proportionally. the other day i was speaking to some small business representatives in my constituency in the west midlands. one of the issues they raised and which they want europe to tackle is this unfair competition from multinationals to the sme sector. this is unfair and it is unjust, because aggressive tax planning by multinationals leads to a loss of between eur 100 to 250 billion every year in member states’ budgets. this means we lose between 4% and 10% of global revenues from corporate taxes. we have to address this, and the bayet report does this and my congratulations to the rapporteur. i particularly welcome the precise definition of what constitutes a tax haven. this builds upon our earlier work where we call for country-by-country reporting for all companies as applied in the financial sector. corporate tax evasion is a global problem which requires global solutions. the g20 has shown its clear commitment and we need to be doing the same. those anti-europeans, the brexiters, are misrepresenting our work here. we are talking about corporate taxation whilst they are implying that we are alluding to personal taxation which is not what this report does. i think what the rapporteur is trying to achieve in this report is absolutely right and as i said before, my congratulations to him.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, of all the pieces of legislation put in place after the 2008 financial crisis, the markets and financial instruments directive and regulation are some of the most wide-ranging and most important. as mr ferber said, these pieces of legislation are incredibly ambitious in their scope. they aim to make markets more transparent, offer better protection to consumers, regulate new high-frequency trading techniques and stop speculation in vital commodities like food and fuel. all measures which, sadly, were not in place before the financial crisis and for which citizens across europe paid the price. partly because of the sense of scope and ambition, it has proved difficult for the european securities and markets authority to set up all of the technical infrastructure needed for the legislation to go live on the original date of 3 january 2017. this is inevitably disappointing. undoubtedly, it would have been better if parliament had been made aware of this problem much sooner than we were, but at the same time, with a new regime of this scale, it is vital that we get things right. that is why i am prepared to support the proposal to postpone the application of the new regime by 12 months. however, i want to reiterate, this is not an invitation for the european securities markets expert group (esme) or the european commission or the financial services industry to breathe a sigh of relief and do nothing. we have been told that 12 months was the minimum delay needed. if that is the case then every single day we will need to count in order to ensure that all is ready for the new go—live date of 3 january 2018; to be absolutely clear, there will be no second delay. i would like to take this opportunity to thank marcus ferber, the rapporteur, and all the shadow rapporteurs for working so cooperatively together. in doing so we have been able to send a very clear message from this house about exactly what we expect from esme and the commission during these additional 12 months. first, we expect regular updates and progress reports. we want to know exactly how the delay is being used to make sure that on 3 january 2018 the new improved financial services regime of method 2 comes into full effect. second, we expect our concerns about some of the secondary legislation to be taken on board. we have been very clear over the last two years, about what these concerns are. if they are not reflected in the final level 2 legislation, then we have the right and the responsibility to reject what we have been sent. for me the most important parts of the level 2 framework are dealing with commodity derivatives. it is unacceptable that speculators and financial markets can so manipulate the markets that they drive up the price of food for shoppers or damage the incomes of farmers. method 2 very clearly states that this kind of speculation must stop and so places limits on the size of position that any one player can hold at a given time. it is in the secondary legislation that those limits will be defined. i have said time and time again that i want to see the limits as low and as strict as possible, especially for the most liquid markets. the original esme proposals were not good enough and i am glad to see they were sent back by the commission. but the commission did not take on board all of parliament’s concerns. we will be looking very closely to make sure that it has done so by the time the draft come back to us for adoption or rejection. we listened to esme and the commission when it came to their concerns about implementation; they now need to show that they have listened to us when it comes to our concerns about secondary legislation.
mr president, it is important that the parliament and the council have managed to find a compromise on this directive. mifid ii and mifir are two of the biggest pieces of financial services regulation that needed to be resolved post-crisis. our aim was to protect the investors, increase transparency and tackle speculation. that is why we have introduced new rules here. however, it is regrettable that the issues around the it infrastructure make it necessary to postpone mifid and mifir by a year. i echo what has already been said, that the commission should not take this as a carte blanche. i expect clear and regular reporting on the progress towards the new implementation date of 2018, and i would be deeply disappointed it we were not able to be ready by 2018. i do not think we could tolerate another delay. hand in hand, we need to see progress on the level-2 measures stemming from these, taking into account the concerns that parliament has raised, in particular the new regime in trading in commodity derivatives. our intention is to ensure that the financial traders in commodity markets do not drive up food and fuel prices, which affect ordinary people, not just in my constituency, but across the whole of the eu. finally, i expect the commission to set the detail of the new regime in the level 2 and not water down the ambitious agreement we have achieved at level 1.
in writing. ‒ this is a huge step in the right direction in the fight against smuggled and illicit tobacco products. tobacco products, both illicit and legal, cause unfathomable harm to the health and well-being of citizens. smoking has recently been identified as the single greatest cause of preventable illness and premature death in the north of ireland. the illicit trade in tobacco products is a scourge that affects all of europe and ireland is no exception. it costs the north of ireland ukp 450 million each year. internal company documents reveal that smuggling became an integral part of tobacco companies’ business strategies and according to customs, imperial brand, the world’s fourth-largest international cigarette company, accounted for 55% of the 17 billion cigarettes smuggled into ‘britain and the north’ every year. the passing of this report means that the european union is now under pressure to ratify and enforce the world health organisation’s protocol on the elimination of the illicit trade in tobacco products. when ratified this protocol will see countries collaborate in the fight against the illegal trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ whilst i agree with the principle the uk government should be signing us up to the who framework rather than the eu signing us up giving the british people no option. i abstained on this issue.
in writing. ‒ illicit and smuggled tobacco products have the potential to cause profound harm to the well-being and health of my constituents in wales. smoking was recently identified as the number one cause of preventable illness, and so i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol, which is another tool in the fight against the trade in illicit tobacco products. the protocol also includes plans to establish a global tracking system, thus making the supply chain more secure. furthermore, it will establish offences, address liability and seizure payments as well as the disposal of confiscated products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol, which is another tool in the fight against the trade in illicit tobacco products. not only is illicit trade in tobacco products harmful to public health, but it also results in huge losses in revenue to the eu. therefore, i supported giving consent to the protocol, as it is in line with the eu’s comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling. the protocol also includes plans to establish a global tracking system, thus making the supply chain more secure.
in writing. ‒ the protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field. not only is illicit trade in tobacco products harmful to public health, but it also results in huge losses in revenue to the eu. therefore, i supported giving a consent to the protocol, as it is in line with the eu’s comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling.
in writing. ‒ colleagues, i am happy to have been given the opportunity to support this consent procedure. the world health organisation’s framework convention on tobacco control is a global response to a global epidemic of tobacco consumption, and the first of its kind. meanwhile, and as a part of this, the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products introduces important cross-governmental measures that establishes a framework for a secure supply chain of tobacco products. this includes information-sharing through a global tracking and tracing scheme as well as the sharing of best practices in licensing, technical and law enforcement cooperation and legal and administrative assistance. working together on this basis is the only effective way of preventing the flow of illicit goods that are placed on the black market at a cheaper price, but which most importantly are unregulated and can cause even greater harm to health than traditional tobacco products. eliminating the flow of these goods will have beneficial effects for world health and i hope that by ratifying this deal the parliament can encourage other parties to help reach the 40 signatures needed for the agreement to enter into force.
in writing. – ukip acknowledges the need to crack down on illegal tobacco products, both due to health risks and due to the need to enforce the law. we do not support the eu making this decision for us, albeit this report had laudable aims, therefore we did not oppose it, but abstained.
in writing. – ukip acknowledges the need to crack down on illegal tobacco products, both due to health risks and due to the need to enforce the law. we do not support the eu making this decision for us, albeit this report had laudable aims, therefore we did not oppose it, but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this file as research into tobacco products consistently shows that it is detrimental to personal and public health. the health effects of the illicit trade in tobacco products are particularly great as it grants cheaper access to a greater number of tobacco products and also evades the protection that regulation provides, which makes the illicit trade in tobacco products particularly worrisome. this new treaty aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products in line with the eu’s comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling.
in writing. ‒ illegal trade in tobacco poses not only great health concerns, but also economic and security concerns. therefore, i fully support this report, providing the council with the ep’s consent to ratify the who protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ it remains essential that the illicit trade in tobacco products be eliminated as a priority. this dangerous trade generates significant revenue flows for organised criminal gangs across the eu, and undoubtedly facilitates through finance wider international criminal enterprise. some of these illegal cigarettes find their way to london, my own constituency. the illegal tobacco trade furthermore damages legitimate business and hampers international efforts to control tobacco circulation as a key public health measure. united kingdom law enforcement agencies have spearheaded the fight against this illegality, with significant successes won against criminals – uk customs agents have to date seized in excess of 26 billion illegal cigarettes and 4 300 tonnes of rolling tobacco, leading to some 4 000 prosecutions. as such, due to the efficacy of existing domestic moves to stamp out the illicit tobacco trade, the uk government has opted out of the eu measure recommended in the anderson report. the uk will enact jha provisions as a separate party rather than on an eu-wide basis. indeed, as a signatory to the fctc, the uk already carries out many of the protocol’s stipulations. i therefore will be abstaining on this report, in line with conservative delegation policy of abstention on issues in which her majesty’s government have secured an opt-out.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my labour party colleagues in favour of this report because the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products, the first protocol to the framework convention on tobacco control (fctc), was adopted on 12 november 2012 and is currently open for ratification, acceptance, approval or accession by the parties at the who fctc. the new treaty aims at eliminating all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. this proposal is in line with the eu’s comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling. other provisions include licencing, record keeping requirements and regulation of internet-sales, duty-free sales and international transit. it establishes offences, and addresses liability and seizure payments, as well as the disposal of confiscated products.
in writing. ‒ this was a technical report which was concerned with a simple consent procedure. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this concerns regulations about vehicles that have three wheels, and in that sense is rather far reaching. it looks to implement the recommendations of un body unece and an independent britain would probably sign up. however the eu should not be forcing the uk to sign up without our consent.
in writing. – ukip notes that this comes from un body unece, which an independent britain would probably adopt anyway. however, the eu should not be doing it in our name and, therefore, we voted against to register our objection.
in writing. ‒ common technical requirements for the automotive industry and its related industries help to reduce vehicle development costs, reduce the costs of production and administrative procedures and promote a transparent and competitive global car industry, so i support the endorsement of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this file aims to conclude revision 3 of the revised 1958 agreement with the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). establishing uniform technical prescriptions for the approval of equipment and parts of vehicles will clearly benefit the industry. the automotive sector is a core industry for the eu, and i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it aims to facilitate trade in motor vehicles by establishing uniform technical prescriptions for the approval of equipment and parts of vehicles and for reciprocal recognition of such approvals. it aims to conclude revision 3 of the revised 1958 agreement with the united nations economic commission for europe – the unece agreement. the automotive industry is one of the largest employers and is incredibly important across europe. common technical requirements like the framework outlined in the unece agreement help to reduce developmental costs and reduce the cost of production and certification. and, most importantly, it does this while securing the highest levels of protection for health and safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it aims to facilitate trade in motor vehicles by establishing uniform technical prescriptions for the approval of equipment and parts of vehicles and for reciprocal recognition of such approvals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the automotive industry is a core economic sector for the eu (4% of the eu’s gdp, 12 million jobs). common technical requirements like the uncece framework help reduce development costs, reduce costs of production and certification and avoid duplication of administrative procedures, while securing the highest levels of protection of health and safety.
in writing. ‒ ukip notes that this comes from un body unece, which an independent britain would probably adopt anyway. however the eu should not be doing it in our name and therefore, we voted against to register our objection.
in writing. ‒ ukip notes that this comes from un body unece, which an independent britain would probably adopt anyway. however the eu should not be doing it in our name and therefore, we voted against to register our objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this non-legislative enactment because it aims to conclude revision 3 of the revised 1958 agreement with the united nations economic commission for europe – the unece agreement – which seeks to facilitate the trade of motor vehicles by establishing uniform technical prescriptions for the approval of equipment and parts of vehicles and for reciprocal recognition of such approval. in my constituency especially, the automotive industry is one of the largest employers and is incredibly important across europe. common technical requirements like the framework outlined in the unece agreement helps to reduce developmental costs and reduce the cost of production and certification. and, most importantly, it does this while securing the highest levels of protection for health and safety.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as the automotive industry is a core economic sector for the eu (4% of the eu’s gdp, 12 million jobs). common technical requirements like the uncece framework help reduce development costs, reduce costs of production and certification and avoid duplication of administrative procedures, while securing the highest levels of protection of health and safety.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical update to the existing deal. i abstained.
in writing. – ukip notes that this is essentially a technical modification of an already existing agreement that simply updates the fact that croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was concluded. we therefore saw no need to oppose a largely technical update so abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to support providing croatia with the legal means to access the trade agreement already in place with colombia and peru and as such i can support it.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the eu and colombia was signed in june 2012, prior to the accession of croatia to the eu. the participation of croatia in this trade agreement is a result of it joining the eu and this regulation simply puts this on a firm legal basis. my conservative colleagues and i welcome the accession of croatia into this free trade agreement, and voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this technical file adapts the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia/peru – given croatia’s accession to the eu. clearly, this agreement had to be updated to reflect the accession of a new member state, and for this reason i voted in favour of this file.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical file because it adapts the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia/peru – given croatia’s accession to the eu. clearly, this agreement had to be updated to reflect the accession of a new member state.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it is simply a technical file to adapt the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia/peru, taking into account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as this protocol is needed to ensure that the eu’s common commercial policy applies to all eu member states in the same way.
in writing. ‒ ukip notes that this is essentially a technical modification of an already existing agreement that simply updates the fact croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was concluded. we therefore saw no need to oppose a largely technical update so abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip notes that this is essentially a technical modification of an already existing agreement that simply updates the fact croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was concluded. we therefore saw no need to oppose a largely technical update so abstained.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru was signed back in june 2012. this was before croatia joined in july 2013. i voted in favour of this consent procedure which takes account of the accession of croatia to the eu. while i know that labour meps opposed the agreement with colombia and peru when it was first signed in 2012 because of our concern for the human rights situation in colombia, in view of the agreement having been signed and provisionally implemented since 2013, it should be applied to all eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the file concerns opening of enhanced cooperation between 17 member states to define rules applicable for jurisdiction, applicable law and recognition and enforcement of decisions for international couples. the content of any agreement has not been agreed yet, however the participating countries have stated that any rules will not seek to change the content of family law applicable in each of the participating member states, nor affect their right to define what is considered as a registered partnership or the right to gay marriage. the agreement merely hopes to set out rules governing procedural rights in case of a conflict between jurisdictions. it was disappointing that ireland and britain have opted out as it is conflicts such as these which can cause unnecessary delays which led to obstructions and excessive legal costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the enhanced co-operation process in the area of property regimes of international couples. "enhanced co-operation" is nothing more than a means by which sovereign member states are pressured into falling into line when they are able to exercise an effective veto on such legislation applying to them. the matter also presages the development of pan-eu law of family property and law of succession in relations thereto which will supersede national law. i remain committed to opposing in principle all legislative acts by the eu.
in writing. – ukip voted against the enhanced co-operation process in the area of property regimes of international couples. firstly, ‘enhanced co-operation’ is nothing more than a means by which sovereign member states are pressured into falling into line when they are able to exercise an effective veto on such legislation applying to them. secondly, this matter presages the development of a pan-eu law of family property and law of succession in relation thereto which will supersede national law. thirdly, this matter is the precursor to legislation by the eu. ukip remains committed to opposing, in principle, all legislative acts by the eu.
in writing. ‒ since this file does not relate to the uk, and will not have any effect on british citizens, i voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the enhanced cooperation process in the area of property regimes of international couples. firstly, ‘enhanced co-operation’ is nothing more than a means by which sovereign member states are pressured into falling into line when they are able to exercise an effective veto on such legislation applying to them. secondly, this matter presages the development of a pan-eu law of family property and law of succession in relation thereto which will supersede national law. thirdly, this matter is the precursor to legislation by the eu. ukip remains committed to opposing, in principle, all legislative acts by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i welcome a higher degree of cooperation on matters of private international law. specifically, the area of international couples that we're addressing here is, in my experience, a field where specific people will feel the specific benefits of this legislation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the enhanced cooperation process in the area of property regimes of international couples. firstly, ‘enhanced co-operation’ is nothing more than a means by which sovereign member states are pressured into falling into line when they are able to exercise an effective veto on such legislation applying to them. secondly, this matter presages the development of a pan-eu law of family property and law of succession in relation thereto which will supersede national law. thirdly, this matter is the precursor to legislation by the eu. ukip remains committed to opposing, in principle, all legislative acts by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i authored this report and i was delighted that the report successfully passed through the european parliament today. this is a huge step in the right direction in the fight against smuggled and illicit tobacco products. tobacco products, both illicit and legal, cause unfathomable harm to the health and well-being of citizens. smoking has recently been identified as the single greatest cause of preventable illness and premature death in the north of ireland. the illicit trade in tobacco products is a scourge that effects all of europe and ireland is no exception. it costs the north of ireland ukp 450 million each year. internal company documents reveal that smuggling became an integral part of tobacco companies’ business strategies and according to customs, imperial brand, the world’s fourth-largest international cigarette company, accounted for 55% of the 17 billion cigarettes smuggled into ‘britain and the north’ every year. the passing of this report means that the european union is now under pressure to ratify and enforce the world health organisation’s protocol on the elimination of the illicit trade in tobacco products. when ratified this protocol will see countries collaborate in the fight against the illegal trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report.
in writing. – ukip acknowledges the need to crack down on illegal tobacco products, both due to health risks and due to the need to enforce the law. we do not support the eu making this decision for us, albeit this report had laudable aims, therefore we did not oppose it, but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation which gives consent to the council to ratify the who framework convention on tobacco control, fctc protocol. this proposal is in line with the eu’s comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling. at present, the illicit tobacco trade leads to huge revenue losses in the eu, and this framework will go some way towards addressing that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation which gives consent to the council to ratify the who framework convention on tobacco control, fctc protocol. this proposal is in line with the eu’s comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling. at present, the illicit tobacco trade leads to huge revenue losses in the eu, and this framework will go some way towards addressing that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as it aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade. in order to address this, the protocol targets the supply chain of tobacco products via a series of measures by governments: creation of a global tracking and tracing regime and establishment of a global information sharing point.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which gives the council consent to ratify the who protocol. the who protocol aims at eliminating all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. this proposal is in line with the eu’s comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling. other provisions include licencing, record keeping requirements and regulation of internet-sales, duty-free sales and international transit. it establishes offences, and addresses liability and seizure payments, as well as the disposal of confiscated products.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against giving consent to the parliament. whilst ukip are not opposed to tackling the illicit trade in tobacco products we do have reservations regarding judicial cooperation on behalf of the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against giving consent to the parliament. whilst ukip are not opposed to tackling the illicit trade in tobacco products we do have reservations regarding judicial cooperation on behalf of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my labour party colleagues in favour of this report because the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products, the first protocol to the framework convention on tobacco control (fctc), was adopted on 12 november 2012 and is currently open for ratification, acceptance, approval or accession by the parties at the who fctc. the new treaty aims at eliminating all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. this proposal is in line with the eu’s comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling. other provisions include licencing, record keeping requirements and regulation of internet-sales, duty-free sales and international transit. it establishes offences, and addresses liability and seizure payments, as well as the disposal of confiscated products.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my labour party colleagues in favour of this report because the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products, the first protocol to the framework convention on tobacco control (fctc), was adopted on 12 november 2012 and is currently open for ratification, acceptance, approval or accession by the parties at the who fctc. the new treaty aims at eliminating all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. this proposal is in line with the eu’s comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling. other provisions include licencing, record keeping requirements and regulation of internet sales, duty-free sales and international transit. it establishes offences, and addresses liability and seizure payments, as well as the disposal of confiscated products.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which aims to amend a directive regulating some of the financial instruments that contributed to the global financial crisis. the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the regulation on markets in financial instruments (mifir) were adopted in the aftermath of the crisis. mifid and mifir (collectively referred to as mifid ii) cover securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues. the initial intention of this directive was to ‘quick fix’ the date of entry into application of mifid ii, which is scheduled to be applied in january 2017 after member states transpose it by july 2016. but a number of delegated acts have been delayed and the commission has proposed to postpone the application date by one year, until january 2018. while i understand the reasons for the postponement, the finance lobby, backed by conservative meps and the council, have tried to use the delay to revisit the content of the mifid ii in order to water down regulation of financial instruments. i oppose any further changes to the text of mifid ii by the european parliament and the council because deregulation of these instruments is exactly what caused the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ the commission has demanded more data than it can chew from financial institutions. there is no such thing as perfect knowledge, this has been both a waste of time and british taxpayer´s money. the primary purpose of this report is for the commission to appear as if they are doing something. if implemented, this report will have serious consequences for the financial services industry.
in writing. – the commission has demanded more information from financial services firms than it can process, the solution is not a delay to make the it systems ever more complicated, but to reduce the information burden on industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached in trilogue, which extends the existing legislation developed in the financial crisis to support key financial instruments. with the planned it infrastructure changes not yet in place, it is therefore prudent to extend the deadline. getting these regulations right is vital for a long-term prosperous financial sector both in the uk and across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending mifid ii and mifir because it is clear that the significant it infrastructure needed to implement these wide-ranging reforms will not be ready in time to meet the original 2017 deadline. therefore, it is fair that the competent authorities have another year in order to prepare. however, this must be the one and only time that this legislation will be delayed. the reforms introduced by mifid ii and mifir are vital for stabilising our financial system following the crisis, and it is important that they come into effect as soon as they possibly can.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending mifid ii and mifir because it is clear that the significant it infrastructure needed to implement these wide-ranging reforms will not be ready in time to meet the original 2017 deadline. therefore, it is fair that the competent authorities have another year in order to prepare. however, this must be the one and only time that this legislation will be delayed. the reforms introduced by mifid ii and mifir are vital for stabilising our financial system following the crisis, and it is important that they come into effect as soon as they possibly can.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending mifid ii and mifir because it is clear that the significant it infrastructure needed to implement these wide-ranging reforms will not be ready in time to meet the original 2017 deadline. it is therefore right that the competent authorities have another year in order to prepare. however, this is the one and only time that this legislation will be delayed. the reforms introduced by mifid ii and mifir are vital for stabilising our financial system following the crisis, and it is important that they come into effect as soon as they possibly can.
in writing. ‒ the commission has demanded more information from financial services firms than it can process, the solution is not a delay to make the it systems ever more complicated but to reduce the information burden on industry.
in writing. ‒ the commission has demanded more information from financial services firms than it can process, the solution is not a delay to make the it systems ever more complicated but to reduce the information burden on industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending the market in financial instrument directive and the markets in financial instruments regulation because it is clear to me that the significant it infrastructure needed to implement these wide-ranging reforms will not be ready in time to meet the original 2017 deadline. it is therefore right that the competent authorities have another year in order to prepare. however, this is the one and only time that this legislation will and should be delayed. the reforms introduced by the aforementioned directive and the regulation are vital for stabilising our financial system following the crisis, and it is important that they come into effect as soon as they possibly can.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending mifid ii and mifir because it is clear that the significant it infrastructure needed to implement these wide-ranging reforms will not be ready in time to meet the original 2017 deadline. it is therefore right that the competent authorities have another year in order to prepare. however, this is the one and only time that this legislation will be delayed. the reforms introduced by mifid ii and mifir are vital for stabilising our financial system following the crisis, and it is important that they come into effect as soon as they possibly can.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which aims to amend a directive regulating of some of the financial instruments that contributed to the global financial crisis. the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the regulation on markets in financial instruments (mifir) were adopted in the aftermath of the crisis. mifid and mifir (collectively referred to as mifid ii) cover securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues. the initial intention of this directive was to ‘quick fix’ the date of entry into application of mifir, which is scheduled to be applied in january 2017 after member states transpose it by july 2016. but a number of delegated acts have been delayed and the commission has proposed to postpone the application date by one year, until january 2018. while i understand the reasons for the postponement, the finance lobby, backed by conservative meps and the council, have tried to use the delay to revisit the content of the mifir in order to water down regulation of financial instruments. i oppose any further changes to the text of mifir by the european parliament and the council because deregulation of these instruments is exactly what caused the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ this report will increase the power of eu institutions by authorising the issuing of delegated acts by the commission and regulated technical standards by the esma. i voted against this report.
in writing. – the commission has demanded more information from financial services firms than it can process. the solution is not a delay to make the it systems ever more complicated, but to reduce the information burden on industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached in trilogue, which extends the existing legislation developed in the financial crisis to support key financial instruments and also tackles the issue of market abuses potentially distorting the market. supporting free, safe markets and reducing regulations wherever possible is vital for a long-term prosperous financial sector both in the uk and across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this directive, but welcome the commission’s proposal to postpone implementation. the exemptions listed are potentially harmful, and driven by financial intermediates’ demands. my constituents in wales deserve transparency on financial markets, whilst this directive proposes to narrow the scope.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending mifid ii and mifir because it is clear that the significant it infrastructure needed to implement these wide-ranging reforms will not be ready in time to meet the original 2017 deadline. therefore, it is fair that the competent authorities have another year in order to prepare. however, this must be the one and only time that this legislation will be delayed. the reforms introduced by mifid ii and mifir are vital for stabilising our financial system following the crisis, and it is important that they come into effect as soon as they possibly can.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending mifid ii and mifir because it is clear that the significant it infrastructure needed to implement these wide-ranging reforms will not be ready in time to meet the original 2017 deadline. therefore, it is fair that the competent authorities have another year in order to prepare. however, this must be the one and only time that this legislation will be delayed. the reforms introduced by mifid ii and mifir are vital for stabilising our financial system following the crisis, and it is important that they come into effect as soon as they possibly can.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending mifid ii and mifir because it is clear that the significant it infrastructure needed to implement these wide-ranging reforms will not be ready in time to meet the original 2017 deadline. it is therefore right that the competent authorities have another year in order to prepare. however, this is the one and only time that this legislation will be delayed. the reforms introduced by mifid ii and mifir are vital for stabilising our financial system following the crisis, and it is important that they come into effect as soon as they possibly can.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending mifid ii and mifir because it is clear that the significant it infrastructure needed to implement these wide-ranging reforms will not be ready in time to meet the original 2017 deadline. it is therefore right that the competent authorities have another year in order to prepare. however, this is the one and only time that this legislation will be delayed. the reforms introduced by mifid ii and mifir are vital for stabilising our financial system following the crisis, and it is important that they come into effect as soon as they possibly can.
in writing. ‒ the commission has demanded more information from financial services firms than it can process, the solution is not a delay to make the it systems ever more complicated but to reduce the information burden on industry.
in writing. ‒ the commission has demanded more information from financial services firms than it can process, the solution is not a delay to make the it systems ever more complicated but to reduce the information burden on industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending mifid ii and mifir because it is clear that the significant it infrastructure needed to implement these wide-ranging reforms will not be ready in time to meet the original 2017 deadline. it is therefore right that the competent authorities have another year in order to prepare. however, this is the one and only time that this legislation will be delayed. the reforms introduced by mifid ii and mifir are vital for stabilising our financial system following the crisis, and it is important that they come into effect as soon as they possibly can.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as there were concerns raised that the candidate who was previously a politician in lithuania, would not able to ensure that he would be able to perform the duties in the court of auditors with the necessary degree of independence. moreover, i was further concerned that the court of auditors is gender unbalanced, as the majority compromising the board are male. this nomination further aggravates this existing imbalance, as the candidate is a man. my colleague lynn boylan has been actively involved in shaping the eu directive on improving gender balance on boards. sinn féin has called on the irish government to follow the example of other european countries in introducing legislation to ensure that gender balance on boards is addressed. gender quotas are a crude instrument but are a necessary tool in the kit to begin addressing the gender imbalance. women making up just 10% of irish corporate boards is not good enough. 36% representation on state boards, while an improvement, still falls short of a target of 40% that was set in 1993. we must do better and with these concerns in mind, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy i wish to confirm i voted against this nomination. these nominations should be based on expertise and merit. they should not political appointments for 'the boys'.
in writing. – ukip voted against this nomination as mr šadžius is highly political. he is currently the finance minister for the socialist government in lithuania. he helped lithuania join the euro and wants more eu integration. he is a pro-eu politician and ukip questions his neutrality when auditing the eus accounts. we seriously doubt he will want to criticise or root out bad or illegal eu spending.
in writing. ‒ mr šadžius gave a good hearing at the committee stage, receiving a large majority in favour of his appointment. in his hearing he showed himself to be a competent, well-prepared and motivated candidate for the role at the european court of auditors – and his experience as a minister in lithuania would stand him in good stead in this role.
in writing. ‒ i support the candidacy of rimantas for the role at the eca. he gave a satisfactory hearing at the committee stage and this is reflected in the large majority in favour of his appointment. he showed himself as competent, well-prepared and motivated.
in writing. ‒ i supported the candidacy. the candidate gave a good hearing at the committee stage, receiving a large majority in favour of his appointment. his hearing showed him to be a competent, well-prepared and motivated candidate for the role at the eca.
in writing. ‒ the candidate gave a good hearing at the committee stage, receiving a large majority in favour of his appointment. his hearing showed him to be a competent, well-prepared and motivated candidate for the role at the eca.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this nomination as mr šadžius is highly political. he is currently the finance minister for the socialist government in lithuania. he helped lithuania join the euro and wants more eu integration. he is a pro-eu politician and ukip questions his neutrality when auditing the eu’s accounts. we seriously doubt he will want to criticise or root out bad or illegal eu spending.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this nomination as mr šadžius is highly political. he is currently the finance minister for the socialist government in lithuania. he helped lithuania join the euro and wants more eu integration. he is a pro-eu politician and ukip questions his neutrality when auditing the eu’s accounts. we seriously doubt he will want to criticise or root out bad or illegal eu spending.
in writing. ‒ rimantas gave a satisfactory hearing at the committee stage and this is reflected in the large majority in favour of his appointment. he showed himself as competent, well-prepared and motivated. i support his candidacy for the role at the eca.
in writing. ‒ the candidate gave a good hearing at the committee stage, receiving a large majority in favour of his appointment. his hearing showed him to be a competent, well-prepared and motivated candidate for the role at the eca.
in writing. ‒ whilst this report contained some positive provisions specifically in relation to human rights, the environment, refugees, tax avoidance and the rights of individual countries to determine their own development policies, it also contained some very regressive provisions regarding the proposed common security and defence policy. there was an entire section on security and development within the report which promotes the importance of the ‘security-development nexus’ and eu external action in defence and security. it calls for reinforcing links between the common security and defence policy and development instruments. i strongly believe matters of defence and security are the competency of established national authorities and no attempt should be made to create, or move towards the creation of, a common security and defence policy. therefore, whilst the report contained some progressive elements these failed to mitigate the worst excesses of the report, and therefore, i abstained on the report.
in writing. ‒ this report extends the power of the commission president to the point where they could possibly step in and use disagreements between political groups to further their own personal agenda. i voted against this report as it is an incoherent combination of wishful thinking and behavioural economic illiteracy.
in writing. – we voted against because, however well-intentioned, the thinking in this report is economically illiterate and would waste taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which could potentially add additional regulatory burdens for member states in addition to passing through amendments on certain issues which i cannot support. member states themselves provide the best means to address these issues, rather than an eu top-down approach. i also note that supporting attempts to tackle poverty and encourage development through aid, trade and investment is a key issue and the uk is playing an important role in supporting these efforts through continuing to meet its aid budget targets and working closely with its international partners.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which includes a stronger linkage between policy coherence for development (pcd) and sustainable development goals (sdgs). greater involvement for local and regional governments, as well as civil society organisations, is particularly welcome. this is another example where the eu can, and should, take the lead in promoting a universal pcd agenda - with sustainable development being the key goal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it includes stronger links between policy coherence for development (pcd) and sustainable development goals (sdgs), greater involvement for local and regional governments and civil society organisations. this is another example where the eu can, and should, take the lead in promoting a universal pcd agenda - with sustainable development being the key goal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. following the signing of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) last year, the need for development principles to run through all eu policy is greater than ever. the principle of policy coherence for development (pcd) represents the eu’s commitment to take account of the impact of its policies on international development. despite the difficulties to implement pcd, the eu should make an effort to ensure more synergies among eu policies, and this report represents the commitment to uphold and enhance the principle of pcd in light of the sdgs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as following the signing of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) last year the need for development principles to run through all eu policy is greater than ever. the principle of policy coherence for development (pcd) represents the eu’s commitment to take account of the impact of its policies on international development. despite the difficulties to implement pcd, the eu should make an effort to ensure more synergies among eu policies, and this report – supported by all sides of the parliament – represents the commitment to uphold and enhance the principle of pcd in light of the sdgs.
in writing. ‒ we voted against because, however well-intentioned, the thinking in this report is economically illiterate and would waste taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ in voting on this report, i rejected the proposals which included calls for a common migration and asylum policy. i have long believed that such proposals undermine citizens' trust in the european union. in this area, the union must act in a way that does not undermine the foundations of european integration.
in writing. ‒ we voted against because, however well-intentioned, the thinking in this report is economically illiterate and would waste taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the need for development principles to run through all eu policy is particularly great, especially since the signing of the sustainable development goals in 2015. the principle of policy coherence for development represents the commitment by the eu to take account of the impact of its policies on international development, despite difficulties in its implementation. the eu should make an effort to ensure that there is a greater synergy among eu policies and this report – supported by all sides of the parliament – represents the commitment to uphold and enhance the principle of having policy coherence for development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because following the signing of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) last year, the need for development principles to run through all eu policies such as environment, agriculture, trade, education, culture, etc., is greater than ever. the principle of policy coherence for development (pcd) represents the eu’s commitment to take account of the impact of its policies on international development. to truly achieve sustainable development, the policies we pursue in agriculture, trade, security and defence, must clearly correspond and compliment sustainable development, and this is what this report aims to achieve. despite the difficulties to implement pcd, the eu should make an effort to ensure more synergies among eu policies, and this report – supported by all sides of the parliament – represents the commitment to uphold and enhance the principle of pcd in light of the sdgs. a specific european council meeting on pcd before the publication of the next commission’s report in 2017 would contribute to raise awareness of pcd and to better define the responsibilities of the different actors involved.
in writing. ‒ by way of background information, the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) is a huge agricultural public—private partnership which is used in sub—saharan africa with the stated aim of improving food security and reducing hunger. in reality however, the nafsn, whose main private actors are multinationals, underpins and promotes an agricultural model based on monoculture and production of export crops, and has been reported as a risk factor in the facilitation of land grabs and ultimately failing to achieve its objectives. small-scale farmers have been side-lined in favour of the will of much larger agribusinesses. this report from a green rapporteur highlights the problems with this ppp and the need for stronger governance structures which currently are lacking in the implementation of nafsn as well as the need to support family farms and smallholders as a more sustainable way to achieve food security and elimination of hunger. therefore, i voted in favour of this report as it contained some very positive and progressive provisions and proactively worked to implement sustainable solutions.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i abstained on this issue. this report highlights how small farmers are being cheated out of improving their livelihoods by big businesses and governments who wish to put profit before the welfare of citizens.
in writing. – we abstained because there is much validity in the criticisms in this report, even if the solutions are not ours.
in writing. ‒ in principle i support nafsn and the need to address the issue of global food security and create agriculture-based growth through public-private partnerships. the key aims are undisputed in calling for a reduction in poverty and hunger, whilst also supporting african farmers to help themselves lift local communities out of poverty. however, i abstained on this report because of concerns over specific amendments which are unlikely to support the objectives originally agreed upon. the uk government has committed heavily in tackling world hunger, leading on international efforts to meet the who’s international target to reduce stunted growth through malnutrition by 40%.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, as it highlights the new alliance’s record of undermining sustainable small-scale production and benefiting big corporations while local farms have lost both land and money. through our membership of the eu, wales has a voice on the international stage, and this is one example of positive work done on a global level. in wales we know the importance of small family farms, and the need to support them for the sake of the whole economy and rural communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, about the new alliance for food security and nutrition (nafsn). however, while the overall objectives of the report are sound, there are still some issues which i feel need to be dealt with. for example, i believe agricultural investment policies should be linked and support the development of the local economy and small scale farmers. in addition, there needs to be an effort to stop land grabbing. i would also welcome better regulation and monitoring of public-private partnerships, as well as making undertakings accountable for human rights, social environmental and labour standards, etc.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which addresses deficiencies in the new alliance for food security and nutrition (nafsn) including the need to prioritise food security and nutrition over export opportunities and growth along with effective action towards hunger and poverty alleviation. safeguarding farmers’ land rights and protecting their environment from concentrated land ownership is vital, so i welcome the fact that this report calls on private companies to create appeal mechanisms and publish publicly—accessible annual reports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it calls on the eu to address all the new alliance’s deficiencies, including enhancing its transparency and governance, so as to ensure that actions taken under the new alliance are consistent with development policy goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls on the deficiencies identified in the new alliance for food security and nutrition on public-private partnerships, land rights, chemical fertilisers and support for small farmers and the local economy to be rectified, whilst still maintaining support for the new alliance aims and ambition. labour meps will remain vigilant and do what we can to address the problems identified in the new alliance in order to make sure that actions taken under the nafsn are consistent with development policy goals.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because there is much validity in the criticisms in this report, even if the solutions are not ours.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because there is much validity in the criticisms in this report, even if the solutions are not ours.
in writing. ‒ the final report, authored by the green group and supported by meps across the political spectrum called on the deficiencies identified in the new alliance on public-private partnerships, land rights, chemical fertilisers and support for small farmers and the local economy to be rectified, whilst still making support for the ambition and the new alliance for food security and nutrition. however, i do recognise the concerns raised in many quarters about the new alliance and will remain vigilant and do what i can to address the problems identified in the new alliance in order to make sure that the actions taken are consistent with development policy goals.
in writing. – in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i voted against this report. this report contains some good ideas but as usual the european union seeks to extend its control and own agenda into individual country´s taxation laws.
in writing. – the report calls on the commission to act, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i want to see accounting standards that ensure financial stability and sustainable growth, along with a meaningful reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards. this will ensure both transparency and accountability. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it stood in committee. labour meps support the promotion of accounting standards which will ensure financial stability and sustainable growth and a deep reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards, in order to ensure better and greater transparency and accountability where it didn’t exist before.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission to act; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission to act; accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it stood in committee. i want to see the promotion of accounting standards which will ensure financial stability and sustainable growth and a deep reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards in order to ensure better and greater transparency and accountability and introduce it where it didn’t otherwise exist.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it reiterates parliament’s view that public country-by-country reporting can play a decisive role in combating tax avoidance and fraud. the report also welcomes the fact that the commission is encouraging member states to follow the esma guidelines on the enforcement of financial information and calls on the commission to assess whether esma’s powers make it possible to ensure consistent and coherent enforcement across the eu and, if not, to explore other ways to ensure proper application of enforcement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as while there were positive aspects in relation to supporting peacekeeping, the progressive elements failed to mitigate the worst excesses of the report, and therefore i could not support it. the report demanded that eu member states significantly increase their military and police contributions to un missions which is completely unacceptable. moreover, it proposed increased cooperation between the united nations, african union, nato and eu which my party would fundamentally oppose. in my view nato is nothing more than a cold war relic that needs to be disbanded. european countries need to increase their spending on social programmes, on job creation programmes, on education, and on healthcare. they certainly don’t need to spend more money on weapons of mass destruction. sinn féin is fully committed to irish neutrality and firmly opposes the erosion of irish neutrality by consecutive governments. we will continue to resist the militarisation of the european union and any attempts by irish governments to join military alliances.
in writing. ‒ this report looks at the current level of eu contribution to peacekeeping and humanitarian operations, in particular in africa and the potential for further eu involvement. it calls for greater eu facilitation of member state´s financial contributions to the un and au. it also calls for increased use of the common security and defence policy, ultimately a move towards a european army. participation in the funding of humanitarian and peacekeeping operations should solely be the responsibility of independent states and the relevant international institutions. i am against the current and further intervention by the european union into the defence and security issues of the uk.
in writing. – this report looks at the current level of eu contribution to peacekeeping and humanitarian operations, in particular in africa, and the potential for further eu involvement. in particular, it calls for greater eu facilitation of member state financial contributions to the un and au. furthermore, it calls for increased use of common security and defence policy measures in these types of operations and more eu coordination of member state policies. participation in and funding of humanitarian and peacekeeping operations should solely be the responsibility of independent states and the relevant international institutions. we are against current and further eu participation in issues related to defence and security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report, as my political group, the socialists and democrats, believes that engaging with africa should be a priority. this report tackles the issue of european cooperation in the framework of the un initiatives for peace support operations in africa, including as well the eu csdp missions and operations in the region. this initiative report comes with recommendations for the eu to improve its engagement in africa in the field of peace support operations, which i cannot oppose.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as cooperation among the african union, the eu and the un is key to regional stability. it is time to reflect on how this trilateral cooperation works, and could work even better.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. cooperation among the african union, the eu and the un is key to regional stability, and we have long-standing partnerships with both organisations. in the field of security and peace support operations, these partnerships increasingly overlap and it is time to reflect on how this trilateral cooperation works, and could work even better.
in writing. ‒ this report looks at the current level of eu contribution to peacekeeping and humanitarian operations, in particular in africa, and the potential for further eu involvement. in particular it calls for greater eu facilitation of member state financial contributions to the un and au. further, it calls for increased use of common security and defence policy measures in these types of operations and more eu coordination of member state policies. participation in, and funding of, humanitarian and peacekeeping operations should solely be the responsibility of independent states and the relevant international institutions. we are against current and further eu participation in issues related to defence and security.
in writing. ‒ i support the involvement of the european union, and in particular its member states, in peace operations in africa. this continent is our neighbor, and our fate is tied to its development. if we support the resolution of crises in africa, the rate of migration of victims of these crises to europe will logically also decrease. so let's work with the un, the african union, and nato to solve these problems.
in writing. ‒ this report looks at the current level of eu contribution to peacekeeping and humanitarian operations, in particular in africa, and the potential for further eu involvement. in particular it calls for greater eu facilitation of member state financial contributions to the un and au. further, it calls for increased use of common security and defence policy measures in these types of operations and more eu coordination of member state policies. participation in, and funding of, humanitarian and peacekeeping operations should solely be the responsibility of independent states and the relevant international institutions. we are against current and further eu participation in issues related to defence and security.
in writing. ‒ i have always considered, along with my socialist colleagues in the socialist and democrats group, that africa is a priority, including as well the aspects related to security. this report tackles the issue of the european cooperation in the framework of the un initiatives for peace support operations in africa, including as well the eu csdp missions and operations in the region. this initiative report comes with recommendations for the eu to improve its engagement in africa in the field of peace support operations, which i cannot oppose. i believe that cooperation between the african union, the european union and the united nations is absolutely key to regional stability, and we have longstanding partnerships with both of these organisations. i would like to see this cooperation work better and i believe this report goes some way in making that happen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. cooperation among the african union, the eu and the un is key to regional stability, and we have longstanding partnerships with both organisations. in the field of security and peace support operations, these partnerships increasingly overlap and it is time to reflect on how this trilateral cooperation works, and could work even better.
in writing. – the eu too often implies that it alone carries the responsibility for addressing global problems and that africa is its special responsibility. this is far from the truth as the report makes clear. there must be a consistent drive towards a more coordinated response by all international actors; the un must carry the main responsibility for external military intervention but the african union must increasingly take the lead, supported by the most capable of our nations as well as by the united states, by nato, and by the eu, as appropriate. enhanced international cooperation; appropriate division of labour; and a continued emphasis on african capability and responsibility, must be our priorities. the needs of the african countries concerned and the security of our own countries should be the overall guiding principles for eu involvement. i do not support, by the way, the references to csdp that have been made through amendments to my report in committee. the eu should have no role in military matters.
in writing. ‒ peace support operations (psos) are a form of crisis response, normally in support of an internationally recognised organisation, such as the un or the african union (au), with a un mandate, and designed to prevent armed conflict, restore, maintain or build peace, enforce peace agreements and tackle the complex emergencies and challenges posed by failing or weak states. this report recognises the need to focus on capacity building rather than the short—term fix of capacity substitution. the report also calls for greater transparency and closer scrutiny of the use of funds from national governments to the un and the eu and for improvements to be made on better coordination amongst all international contributors to avoid unnecessary duplication. i voted for the report as cooperation among the african union, the eu and the un is key to regional stability, and we have longstanding partnerships with both organisations. in the field of security and peace support operations, these partnerships increasingly overlap and it is time to reflect on how this trilateral cooperation works, and could work even better.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was a very positive report which sought to address unfair trading practices (utps). utps are a particular issue in the food supply chain where there are serious imbalances between farmers and smes and larger actors in the food supply chain such as supermarkets and can include (but is not limited to): payment delays; exerting untoward pressure to cut prices; retroactive changes to a contract; and sudden and unjustified cancellations of contracts. supermarkets especially abuse their power in the food supply chain by selling key products below the cost of production, and staples such as fruit and veg as well as dairy are sold as ‘loss leaders’. the report criticises the supply chain initiative, a voluntary stakeholder dialogue set up by the european commission to work on the issue. many farmers’ representatives have not joined this voluntary forum as it has been widely criticised and it lacks the mechanisms to seriously tackle the issues and have any real effect. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. this report calls for an eu regulator to tackle deemed unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. i believe that individual countries should implement their own legislation to tackle this problem.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative resolution. this report calls for the creation of a european regulator to tackle utps. many member states currently have national regulators, and the united kingdom is considered to have one of the best. ukip believes that a harmonised approach would not be in the best interest of the uk, and therefore we have voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support a european framework to address unfair trading practices, which risks undermining the significant efforts being made in the uk through the grocery adjudicator and grocery code to address unfair trading practices in the uk market. this national self-regulatory scheme is much more effective than a european scheme ill-fitted to the uk market would prove to be, as the criticism of own brands in this report shows. own brands deliver more choice and competitive pricing to consumers, and any attempt to undermine the uk’s consumer-focused market should be rejected. however i also recognise the hard work done by the rapporteur to try to make the report better and so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. the dairy industry in wales is under constant stress from unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. for the industry to be sustainable, we need to ensure fair and transparent relations between producers and suppliers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because significant efforts are already being made through the uk grocery adjudicator and grocery code to address unfair trading practices in the uk market and i feel that a european framework could undermine the hard work already being done under this national scheme. my colleagues and i also feel that the ‘own brands’ component is a particularly negative development because such brands offer alternative routes to market for producers, such as marks & spencer, whose products are popular with consumers and give them a wider variety of choice.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, as i want to put an end to unfair commercial practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers when they engage in commercial relations in a highly concentrated market. voluntary schemes, such as the supply chain initiative, fail to deliver on that front. it is time for the eu to develop regulatory measures at european level to tackle unfair trading practices (utps) and to ensure better enforcement mechanisms are in place at member state level. further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created – while workers and farmers suffer. furthermore, a lack of action to stop utps also undermines the european growth and jobs agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as alongside other labour meps, i want to put an end to unfair commercial practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers when they engage in commercial relations in a highly concentrated market. voluntary schemes, such as the supply chain initiative, fail to deliver on that front. it is time for the eu to develop regulatory measures at european level to tackle unfair trading practices (utps) and to ensure better enforcement mechanisms are in place at member state level. further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created – while workers and farmers suffer. furthermore, a lack of action to stop utps also undermines the european growth and jobs agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i want to put an end to unfair commercial practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers when they engage in commercial relations in a highly concentrated market. voluntary schemes, such as the supply chain initiative, fail to deliver on that front. it is time for the eu to develop regulatory measures at european level to tackle utps and to ensure better enforcement mechanisms are in place at member state level. further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created, whilst workers and farmers suffer. lack of action to stop utps also undermines the european growth and jobs agenda.
in writing. ‒ we support this report as we want to put an end to unfair commercial practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers when they engage in commercial relations in a highly concentrated market. voluntary schemes, such as the supply chain initiative, fail to deliver on that front. it is time for the eu to develop regulatory measures at european level to tackle utps and to ensure better enforcement mechanisms are in place at member state level. further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created, whilst workers and farmers suffer. lack of action to stop utps also undermines the european growth and jobs agenda.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative resolution. this report calls for the creation of a european regulator to tackle utps. many member states currently have national regulators and the united kingdom is considered to have one of the best. ukip believes that a harmonised approach would not be in the best interest for the uk and therefore we have voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative resolution. this report calls for the creation of a european regulator to tackle utps. many member states currently have national regulators and the united kingdom is considered to have one of the best. ukip believes that a harmonised approach would not be in the best interest for the uk and therefore we have voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report in plenary because i would like to see an end to unfair commercial practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers when they engage in commercial relations in an already greatly concentrated market. voluntary schemes, such as the supply chain initiative, fail to deliver on that front. it is time for the eu to develop regulatory measures at european level to tackle unfair trading practices (utps) and to ensure better enforcement mechanisms are in place at member state level. any undue delay will mean that utps will continue to distort the market, which will affect the integrity of the european single market, it will adversely affect consumers and create unnecessary food waste. utps will needlessly cause workers and farmers to suffer and a lack of action to tackle this will not only have this continue, but also undermine the european growth and jobs agenda.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as my labour colleagues and i want to put an end to unfair commercial practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers when they engage in commercial relations in a highly concentrated market. voluntary schemes, such as the supply chain initiative, fail to deliver on that front. it is time for the eu to develop regulatory measures at european level to tackle utps and to ensure better enforcement mechanisms are in place at member state level. further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created, whilst workers and farmers suffer. lack of action to stop utps also undermines the european growth and jobs agenda.
in writing. ‒ with my labour party colleagues, we supported this report as we want to put an end to unfair commercial practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers when they engage in commercial relations in a highly concentrated market. voluntary schemes, such as the supply chain initiative, fail to deliver on that front. it is time for the eu to develop regulatory measures at european level to tackle utps and to ensure better enforcement mechanisms are in place at member state level. further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created, whilst workers and farmers suffer. lack of action to stop utps also undermines the european growth and jobs agenda.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report together with my labour colleagues, because we want to put an end to unfair commercial practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers who face a highly concentrated market of relatively few large retailers who dominate. voluntary schemes, such as the supply chain initiative, fail to deliver on that front. it is time for the eu to develop regulatory measures at european level to tackle utps and to ensure better enforcement mechanisms are in place at member state level. further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, and competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created, whilst workers and farmers suffer. lack of action to stop utps also undermines the european growth and jobs agenda. on the whole, the food sector’s supply chains are full of exploitation of workers, violations human rights, and damage the environment around the world. the eu is one of the only international actors that can act to ensure that food supply chains are fairer and more sustainable, and this is one step towards that cause.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which was particularly regressive and sponsored a principally negative agenda. the report repeatedly called for increased production and the intensification of agricultural activities, using a growing population as the justification for this. moreover, this report also called for more uptake by famers in the use of drones and ‘technology driven’ machinery, all with the aim of taking farmers off the land and causing considerable extra costs for small farmers. the report suggests that any farmers who lose their jobs as a result of these robotically—driven tractors can simply be retrained, which is a very myopic stance to take. the report further asks the commission to take into account the use of this technology by farmers when assessing their eligibility for greening payments in cap, but doesn’t draw attention to the fact that the vast majority of farmers won’t be able to afford this. it was for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i wish to confirm in the interest of transparency and democracy that i voted against this report. with an ever increasing global population it is important that innovative solutions for sustainable agriculture are found as we move into the future. farmers have their part to play in becoming more sustainable and efficient as they feed more and more people. we need investment in agricultural technology and scientists should be aiming to work side by side with farmers to tackle to problems we face in the decades to come. unfortunately the so called solutions in this report would not achieve much.
in writing. – all societies need good agricultural technology but this does little to deliver it so we opposed it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome my colleague anthea mcintyre’s report and its focus on supporting innovation through reduced regulation and on the importance of creating a risk-based regulatory environment, underpinned by scientific evidence. innovation is vital for the future of agriculture, and this report – and all other efforts to support it – are to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it fails to mention working with natural processes that could steer us away from potentially harmful fertilisers and pesticides. the report is not backed up by scientific or economic facts, and contains statements that could undermine rules on health and the environment. farmers in wales need support to produce food but also to protect our environment. the two can go hand in hand if sustainable methods are adopted.
in writing. ‒ better management of natural resources is key for sustainable agriculture. the demographic challenges of tomorrow will make it necessary to adapt how we both produce and dispose of food – and in order to do this we must embrace technological innovation. by using technology we can help to reduce fertiliser use, better soil and water management, ict-based management and real-time data monitoring. along with s&d colleagues, i stress the importance of small and family farming to the agriculture sector, and that innovation must also be available to them through the european innovation partnership. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report represents an unacceptable endorsement of industrial factory farming, despite its disrespect for the environment and animal welfare standards. behind the smokescreen of high-tech solutions and ‘precision agriculture’, conservative meps are trying to push forward even more environmental and climate damage. it is unacceptable for parliament to endorse further increases of food production in the eu at a time of massive food wastage and immense climate impacts of unsustainable meat and dairy consumption. eu agriculture policy needs more balance between food production, environment and climate and cannot keep serving exclusively the interest of big agri-industries.
in writing. ‒ all societies need good agricultural technology but this does little to deliver it, so we opposed it.
in writing. ‒ all societies need good agricultural technology but this does little to deliver it, so we opposed it.
in writing. ‒ i was not able to support my other socialist colleagues on this report as i believe that it represents an unacceptable endorsement of industrial factory farming and its utter disrespect for the environment and animal welfare standards. behind the smokescreen of high-tech solutions and ‘precision agriculture’, conservative (both small ‘c’ and large ‘c’) meps are trying to push forward even more environmentally damaging policies. it is completely unacceptable for parliament to endorse any further increases of food production at a time of massive food waste and the immense climate impacts that unsustainable meat and dairy consumption produces. the agricultural policy of the eu needs to be made more balanced, taking into account food production, the environment and climate change. it cannot keep serving the interests of big agri-industries as it has been doing almost exclusively.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which had as its overall aim the increased use of robotics and gps driven machinery in agriculture, having the overall effect of taking farmers off the land. as an mep from a vastly rural constituency, i oppose this move to take farmers off the land, it having an overall effect of decreasing jobs and removing the beating pulse of rural communities. the report further called for the european commission to take into account the use of this technology when assessing farmers’ eligibility for greening payments in cap – however, it did not take into account the fact that the vast majority of small, family-run farms would not be able to afford this. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy i wish to confirm i voted against this report. i deplore the regulatory burden that british farmers face as a result of the bureaucracy imposed on them by the european union. although i wish to encourage farm innovation and productivity the author of this report jan huitema, a dairy farmer, should know better.
in writing. – all societies need good farm management and agricultural innovation but this will not deliver them so we opposed it.
in writing. ‒ i support the emphasis in this report on supporting innovation in technology and farm governance through coherent legislation. i also welcome the advocacy in this report of using big data and sensor technology to adopt a new whole-farm management approach to mapping, soil-quality, fertiliser use, etc. these techniques could significantly reduce the use of fertiliser and water, and combat soil erosion, making farming much more sustainable in the future.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it offers the commission a range of innovative ideas and solutions for future european farm management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it offers the commission a range of innovative ideas and solutions for future european farm management.
in writing. ‒ all societies need good farm management and agricultural innovation but this will not deliver them so we oppose it.
in writing. ‒ all societies need good farm management and agricultural innovation but this will not deliver them so we oppose it.
in writing. ‒ unlike the mcintyre report on ‘technological solutions for sustainable agriculture’, this report from jan huitema is much more balanced and includes some key policy points which labour meps have been advocating. we need to see a range of innovative ideas and solution if we’re going to have a dynamic and fit-for-purpose european agriculture sector, particularly in terms of farm management.
madam president, i think we need a fundamentally different approach, with absolute priority on reducing the number of migrants entering the eu from outside. the current human-rights-driven agenda merely encourages migration. the pull factors of an open door, the near certainty of remaining once arrived on european soil, poor enforcement and repatriation, excessively generous welfare payments, and a legal straitjacket of international human rights conventions, are of far greater significance than the lack of physical barriers to migration – and mr verhofstadt’s ticket offices are not the answer, by the way. i am also concerned about the effects of visa liberalisation. there are indications that many people from third countries enter the schengen area legally and then overstay. these people are not effectively recorded, net departure is not enforced. what is the commission going to do about this? by the way, we should not expect member states to provide additional eu budget funding to cover migration policies. funds must be found from elsewhere within the budget. there must be former priorities which can be dropped and now there are new priorities. that is where you find the money from. there is no excuse for trying to call for more money from member states.
blue-card question. – and thank you, sir, for having the courage of your convictions to answer a question. i wish everyone had the same courage. do you think that the eu public will be joyfully celebrating the calls we have heard in this chamber for global wealth redistribution on a scale that would have had karl marx’s eyes watering, or do you think the taxpayers of the eu might think that perhaps they would like to keep some of that money for themselves and have it spent in their own countries? do you think they share the zeal of some of our colleagues for throwing money elsewhere rather than in their home countries?
blue-card question. – so you talk about human rights, but do you not agree with me that the human rights industry actively works against us? on a radio programme recently on the bbc, i actually challenged the red cross and said you turn economic migrants into refugees, and he openly admitted that. it is there to hear on tape. i was in the greek migrant camps three weeks ago and the same thing is going on. do you actually believe that taxpayers’ money should be wasted on such initiatives?
madam president, having been to the camps along the northern coast of the schengen area, i can tell you it is a bonanza for criminal gangs and terrorists. in dieppe i even saw port security letting albanian people traffickers climb fences into the port, and it was i who was threatened when i asked him to stop this happening. not one penny of british taxpayers’ money should go into this disastrous eu migration policy, and if you want to control migration, if you want to stop deaths in the mediterranean, then we need be turning boats back. britain has a new problem this summer. we have our own invasion of migrants to the south coast and the eu has tried to hide its plans for a common eu coastguard and border force by holding the debate at the first plenary session after the uk referendum. now i ask myself, why would they want to do that? is it because they know the british people would recoil at eu control in territorial waters without having to even ask permission from the government? i hope people who are undecided about how to vote in the uk referendum listen to what the eu are planning, that immigration policy is decided at eu level and they are asking for eur 50 billion to fund it. it is yet another reason for the people of great britain to vote to leave. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, can i correct you? it is 23 june. you will have missed it on the 25th. i hope that, when we leave the european union, the european union will sort this problem. we, as an island nation, will sort out our own problem and sort out our own borders.
madam president, while i acknowledge the concerns that some people have about the impact of migration, the standard of debate on this issue during our referendum campaign in the uk has become highly distasteful. those who argue we should leave the union are deliberately confusing three issues: first, control of our borders. leave campaigners know we still control our borders, which is why vote leave wrote to the home secretary asking her to refuse permission for marine le pen to enter the uk to help them campaign. secondly, asylum for those who need it, the central theme of this debate. here the uk has rejected our responsibility of acting in solidarity with the countries under most pressure. we should be working with them to protect those fleeing conflicts for which we are more responsible than most as a result of our disastrous policy interventions in the middle east. thirdly, free movement. this is a crucial part of the single market on which our economy depends. leaving it would damage businesses and households and limit opportunities for thousands of british people who live, work and retire across the eu.
madam president, an african trust fund? you want billions from the uk taxpayers' pockets for africa? the uk is already the second largest contributor of foreign aid. only last year we contributed gbp 2.5 billion worth of money in foreign aid; but you want more. taxpayers actually fund the ngos who are actively working against the wishes of the uk citizens and the citizens across europe. i was in greece with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) last week. the message from the socialist meps is that we will re-open our borders; our borders will be open. even the ngos were actually shocked at that, saying this would lead to riots in the camps. unless we set the political messages right, billions will not make any difference, as the human rights industry is actively working against us. the only way we can stop and help genuine asylum-seekers is to reject your proposals, rejects the eu and vote brexit on 23 june. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i was in a meeting of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) a couple of weeks ago, where i represented my group ahead of a discussion post going to the conference of presidents. i specifically asked for something that should not go onto the agenda, which was the eu—turkey deal. so i was there representing my group, but we were actually ignored by the libe committee. timothy kirkhope, a british mep, refused to have our group’s proposal put forward. when i was in the migrant camps three weeks ago, the socialist, péter niedermüller, actually said that we have open borders here. we are working with the commission to open our borders. now, there are three groups in here that were represented in that meeting who said that you could not give that message, it is dangerous. the ngos told me that. so should ask your socialist colleagues what they are saying about having open borders. that is sending the wrong message to africa and the rest of the millions that want to come as migrants to our countries and that we cannot afford.
mr president, i welcome this communication. it was understandable that priority was accorded to negotiations with turkey, but other more vulnerable countries also need our attention, something which was acknowledged today. but when member states have contributed just 80 million to the 1.8 billion trust fund for africa, the european parliament must insist that genuine new money be provided and that development aid in particular should not be diverted, as otherwise more for more risks becoming more for less. it is one reason why the italian proposal for eurobonds as part of the compact should be considered. these bonds would be not just financial bonds, but bonds of solidarity between europe and the wider world. following the un conference on financing for development, the pledge is made for climate finance at cop21 and europe’s own support for a financial transactions tax. we have to be open to creating new innovative forms of international finance to meet new international challenges. i admit that the idea of a grand bargain with third countries to halt refugee flows is distasteful to many. you do not bargain over people’s lives. but let us face it, the eu has done precisely that, linking visa and trade concessions to readmission agreements over many years. so if the money is genuinely additional, if we recognise that 86% of refugees are in the global south and not making their way to europe, if this new money first and foremost improves the lives and livelihoods of those refugees and of all peoples in the countries to which they have fled, if europe honours its promise of safe routes for legal migration, then we should give it our support. finally, this communication on first reading does appear to fall into the trap of assuming that europe in its external policy is much more effective as a funder than as a political actor. i praise the commitments in the communication to global diplomacy on migration, but would have liked to see more emphasis on the eu’s diplomatic role in conflict resolution, as well as on active efforts to ensure that human rights and international humanitarian law are upheld, not just saying it, but doing it. nevertheless, i know that to be the personal commitment of the high representative/vice-president and on this and other issues she and first vice-president timmermans have our support.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his statement and the proposals. they are very important proposals and indeed very brave coming at the time of the global migration crisis. as we heard in the previous debate, it is a global migration crisis. but if i start with the first proposal on integration, i was reminded of a swiss german poet – i cannot remember the name – who, when asked about guest workers in germany, said ‘we invited guest workers to germany, unfortunately we got human beings’. the problem is that if we do not manage migration, and if we do not manage the integration of those whom we invite or of those refugees who are deserving of international protection, we will pay the cost. i think the commissioner has made that point. but the commission, the european parliament and of course the member states above all have to understand that integration is not an option. we will pay the cost if we do not employ those integration measures that we can have at our disposal. ultimately, most integration measures are done at local level, but we know from our discussions with the commission that there are key integration measures that we can advance with the commission in the labour market that are at our disposal. we know that some countries, like the united kingdom, will opt out of those and i want to make that clear to those who are listening very carefully to that point. on the question of the blue card, many people throw around issues like the australian-style points system. well let us be very clear on the question of the blue card: at the moment it is completely unsatisfactory. the issue of managing migration, which everyone wants to talk about across the political spectrum, has to be worthy of the name. if we are going to manage migration for the benefit of migrants in a proper respectful mutual partnership with those countries who are sending migrants, then we have to have a proper well-studied proposal, like the seasonal workers proposal or the student proposal that my colleague ms wikström has finished. legal migration must not be done on the cheap and on the quick. with the commission we must do it properly, so that we have a proper mutual understanding with the sending countries: no cherry picking, a proper legal migration proposal that is worthy of its name. i thank the commission for its proposal today.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would agree with what the commissioner has said about the need to develop our own skills base within the european union. that is the topic of the next debate this afternoon. of course, we need to actually do more to retain the highly-qualified people that we have, but this is never going to be a perfect match. as the commission figures show, there are major shortages. i would add engineers to his list, and if we want to move further in terms of a just transition towards a low-carbon economy, engineers are people that we need. they do not all have to be men. but the group that we are talking about very much this afternoon are people who actually do have choices about where they go, and some of the proposed changes to the blue card sound very positive. indeed, a number of them were argued for by some of us in this chamber the first time round – i am sure mr moraes will remember that. but when this blue card was coming into place, again at the beginning, one of the things that we were told was that people who have choices were often put off coming to the european union because they actually perceived it as a place where they would experience racism, where they would experience xenophobia and where they would not be made welcome. would the commission like to comment on whether he feels that the european union has moved on to become a more welcoming environment, or indeed whether the integration proposals that he has are going to work as part of a two-way street? that needs to cover attitudes here as well. we do need to look at the issues around social inclusion and at how the different funding mechanisms we have work together to actually make sure that no group is excluded.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that i find myself listening with great interest to what he says in his speech. if we took the words ‘european’ and ‘union’ out of this for a moment, commissioner, you say that immigration should be skills-based: i agree. you say that sometimes there are times when it would take too long to train particular skills that we need in our economy for ourselves, and again, i agree. also, you accept that there is a need for control rather than for uncontrolled immigration, and again i agree. of course, in terms of training up skills, there is an awful lot more that we need to do. i agree with all of that. but the debate that we have in the united kingdom when we come up to the referendum on 23 june is not just about non-eu immigration, it is also about eu immigration. it is the same issue to us whether people come from poland or pakistan, whether they come from austria or australia, whether they come from spain or senegal. we believe that people should be treated the same. nobody would have argued, 40 years ago – certainly not in the uk – that we should have a system of uncontrolled immigration from the other 27 countries of the european union, but highly controlled migration from the other 167. so commissioner, your arguments against uncontrolled immigration from non-eu countries i say apply just as well to immigration from eu countries. we need appropriate control from everywhere.
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting the blue card, sir. i understand from your speech that we may have room for some agreement, so i just wish to get some clarification from you. would you agree with me that the only real benefit that comes to anyone from getting so many new people into the labour market so quickly goes to large employers, who manage to drive down the cost of labour and stop people being able to earn the kind of money they once did, and that is the real reason why there is such a drive to try and get more people into the labour market in europe? would you agree with that?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i too would really have appreciated having the full documents in front of us to have a more in-depth discussion, but i think it is clear. we are well aware that we have key shortages in our skills area – we have just discussed that, not least in terms of the blue card proposals. we are well aware that it is not just in the digital sector; it is also in the engineering sector where we have an enormous shortfall. i really hope that the new proposals are going to be looking again, for example, at stem skills, and where we are actually going to develop those, particularly in relation to gender. in one of the earlier reports, we looked at the focus on the shift in our economy to a more sustainable, low-carbon economy. it had a whole range of recommendations on skills within that, which i also really hope are going to be taken up in the proposals coming from the commission. otherwise, i think we are just doomed to repeat our reports without actually moving forward.
madam president, what is the point of our talking about the new skills agenda for europe when the president of turkey, a candidate country, says that women who do not have children are half human? women must be able to choose their own paths in life, whether it is having children, having a job or both. turkey is clearly a country whose leadership does not respect women and is only interested in their ability to reproduce or, presumably, clean up after their husbands. perhaps mr erdogan and the men who think like him should look at the huge contributions that women have made in the past, from jane austen to marie curie, the suffragettes, the women who kept the country running during two world wars and the women who now serve in our armed forces. how anyone can call themselves feminist and support this chauvinistic country’s attempt to join the eu is unbelievable. i hope that british women realise this and vote to leave.
mr president, i welcome the recognition in the commission’s proposal of the need to adopt a global and lifelong approach when it comes to skills, combining work skills and life skills. in an uncertain world we need to prepare a generation of young people with the motivation, commitment and transferrable skills, such as creative thinking, entrepreneurship, leadership and capacity building, so that they can become audacious problem solvers and responsible citizens. we are asked to help prepare these young people to live in a fast-changing world which we cannot yet even imagine. one thing we know, though, is that this future world will be more and more digitised and connected. that is why media literacy is the key. but here again, it should not limit itself to learning about the tools and the technologies, it should aim at equipping individuals with the critical thinking and digital curiosity necessary for them to become not only users of technologies but active citizens in connected societies. for me the backbone of this skills agenda must be education for citizenship, including e-citizenship through formal, non-formal and informal learning.
mr president, it would seem that the eu wishes to control every part of its citizens’ lives. you now want eu standards for skills and education. does that mean that the same educational standards are required in every single eu country, and the same form of education? you want to control what skills people learn, and of course where and how they use them, all of that at the cost of tens of billions of euros of taxpayers’ money. education and training, like most other things, work better with less state, or less superstate, involvement, less politicians, more educationalists. the eu’s desire to control everything and every facet of life, unfortunately – and unintentionally – is negative and destructive at every level.
in writing. – did you know that a staggering 23 million people are currently unemployed across the eu – 10% of the active population? for our european economy to grow and remain competitive, we need more jobs. from 2012 onwards our working age population has started to shrink. to ensure the sustainability of our welfare systems, more people need to work. but the problem goes beyond mere job numbers. we need a new approach to education and skills development also to ensure that fewer europeans are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. we have seen what devastating effects a lack of true integration – social and economic – can have on our societies. for example, radicalisation succeeds in those communities that feel they have been left out. we have to reverse this negative trend. this is why inclusion of part-time and temporary workers, also for the refugees and migrants currently europe, is so important. i am supporting the commission in today’s launch of the new skills agenda. its task is not just to create more jobs, but to improve and strengthen our european social fabric. after all, our future success is ensured only if all aspects of our society feel they are working together, towards the same goal.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, at least ten secular liberal activists have been murdered in cold blood since the start of 2016 alone. daesh and al—qaeda claimed many of these attacks, yet bangladeshi authorities systematically refuse to acknowledge their presence, opting to use these atrocious killings for electoral purposes instead of protecting activists and vulnerable groups like lgbti. the blatant failure of the bangladesh international crimes tribunal to meet fair trial standards is fuelling more violence and extremism. we cannot afford to let bangladesh descend into full—blown violence. we need to do the following: set up projects to counter violent extremism, with india as a bridgehead, which will help us gain a foothold and stop the country from becoming a regional stronghold for terrorism. second, the focus of all sides in bangladesh – government and opposition – should be on genuine accountability for the crimes today and for those committed in 1972. extrajudicial killings and arbitrary arrests have to stop. i call upon the high representative to take a lead in the un on further steps implementing sanctions against those responsible for abusive policies on all sides and supporting an internationally—supervised judicial mechanism to ensure justice is served.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, bangladesh is a secular south asian democracy and it is a political model that i strongly support. its championing of religious tolerance, freedom of expression, women’s rights and education, are values that we would recognise and celebrate here in europe. such values are, however, threatened in bangladesh right now – but not by the government, as some in this chamber will seek to argue this evening, but by islamist extremists. in 1971 jamaat-e-islami was rightly banned in bangladesh, not only for the atrocities committed during the civil war, but also for its continued ideological campaign and terrorist activities against the secular state. since the lifting of this ban in 1979, jamaat continues along this path, with reported links to extremist jihadist groups. i urge tonight the opposition party, the bmp, to end and denounce its links with them so that it can fulfil its proper secular democratic role in opposition. only today was the body of a hindu priest found near to his temple, the killing clearly motivated by his religion. he joins the many others that have been murdered in similar attacks: academics, gay rights activists, secular bloggers and journalists, as well as other individuals from religious minorities such as christian, buddhist or ahmadi. bangladesh, as one of the poorest countries in the world, does not enjoy the luxuries of established and properly trained and sophisticated security services as we do here in the west. as we in the european union battle against our own extremist insurgencies, we must offer more support and sympathy to bangladesh’s government and less words of criticism and condemnation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i should say at this point that i speak in my capacity as chair of the delegation for relations with countries with south asia, which includes bangladesh. as others have said, an overwhelming majority of bangladeshis are extremely proud of the fact that they are able to live as a whole range of different faiths and communities, but we are seeing this gradual escalation from those claiming to be from islamic state or from spin-offs of al—qaeda attacking a range of people, as we have heard: from a shopkeeper to gay rights activists, and indeed the murder recently of mahmuda akter, the wife of an anti-terrorist police officer. it is certainly time for very strong signals from the government that society is not going to be divided. i think we should be pleased to see the statement from 100 000 clerics and their fatwa for peace, which will be fully published on 18 june 2016. but a strong civil society is absolutely essential, and to provide grassroots resilience and a sense of community rather than seeing – as we sometimes feel at the moment – that the government sees those grassroots as a problem. we really should be upholding the work of human rights defenders, such as the organisation ‘odhikar’, and indeed press freedom. we are seeing far too many journalists going to jail. we also need to see effective policing and a judicial system where people really do feel that there is equality before the law. as others have said, we are seeing an extremely worrying situation there. we really need to be supporting the government in its efforts, but making sure but that it also acts in the best interests of all bangladeshis.
mr president, tragically for the people of bangladesh, recent barbaric murders remind us of the country’s lengthy history of political instability and wanton violence. while we must do our utmost not to meddle in the affairs of sovereign nations, we have a responsibility to condemn violence while encouraging and fostering political dialogue. to this end, the only viable way for bangladesh to get itself back on track is for the country’s leading political parties to show real leadership to get the country out of this impasse. one cannot ignore the toxic effect of the ruling coalition’s blatant electoral manoeuvring in the run up to the previous elections. it created a climate of great institutional mistrust and has only added fuel to the fire of violence that we are witnessing now. on the other hand, the opposition would do well to distance itself from extremist groups, developing real policies for their countries instead. ultimately, the only way to guarantee a fresh start for bangladesh and its people is for new elections to be called under a caretaker government as soon as possible.
mr president, i welcome the partnership and cooperation agreement with the philippines as a vital basis for strengthening relations with the country and region that is fast gaining its geopolitical importance. the eu is a major partner for the philippines in trade and investment, but how much clout will we have once the tpp – a major us trade deal with the region which philippines is eager to join – is fully ratified and implemented? so if we want to stay ahead of the game, it is key that we move forward on negotiations for an fta which should serve as a stepping stone for a regional deal with south-east asia. another area where we should really step up engagement is the south china sea, where chinese provocations are fuelling tensions on a daily basis. finding a solution is not only key for global stability, but also for our trade routes. it is important for the eu to become a vastly more pro-active and visible actor in the region, but not by turning a blind eye to human rights issues in return, especially given that president-elect duterte’s recent remarks yesterday are of real concern to us.
mr president, amnesty international confirmed that shannon airport in ireland had been used by the cia and the us military for extraordinary rendition flights. torture techniques used by the cia and the bush administration were due to the european court ruling which concluded that the 14 irishmen, known as the hooded men, suffered inhumane and degrading treatment, but not torture. so that gave the bush administration ‘cover’ to use the five torture techniques. but the british government told lies to the european court and the british secretary of state has now been compelled to give further evidence. the 14 irishmen underwent horrific interrogations from which they never recovered. hundreds more like them have been tortured by the cia. the rapporteur is right. it was torture. it breached international law and such criminal behaviour must be exposed and challenged, at the very least to prevent other member states from torturing and – as was the case in ireland – governments being involved in the murder of people.
mr president, let us remember that the usa is officially our ally, despite the fact that its president’s recent interventions in the uk made me question his personal goodwill. its security services are not under eu control; nor, thankfully, are the uk intelligence services – undoubtedly the best in the world, and we are very grateful for what they do. yes, intelligence services should interrogate as humanely as possible; absolutely they should. but their work must not be hampered by politicians and their political principles to the degree where we are put in danger. the human rights of terrorists must never be allowed to trump the right to freedom and safety of innocent citizens. unfortunately you cannot break a terrorist down by putting them on the naughty step.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the uk government is increasing its focus on the uk space sector, and that is a good idea. the uk should use our excellent technological base to develop our space policy and to do it properly, so that the people of the uk can benefit from the innovations that undoubtedly come from this kind of research and development and also – let us be straight, if you do it right – the profits. however, i am concerned, and i share some of the sentiments some of the other speakers have had about the eu developing its space policy in this manner, particularly when it falls under a defence remit in a certain degree. maybe the ambitions of this place are so grand that not even this continent will suffice. maybe the world is not enough. maybe it needs to go into space. but this is not what the eu should be for. it was supposed to be about trade. now your ambitions take you into space and you have defence ideas about star wars. well on that theme, fortunately for us in the uk, on 23 june we have the opportunity for darth juncker’s death star to be finished off by nigel skywalker and the rebel alliance. i will be doing my very best to make sure that the correct side wins through on that and that uk space technology is dealt with in the uk.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i do not think we can call the juncker investment plan a rip-roaring success. just have a look around at the empty seats this morning. and the idea that tens of billions of private capital are going to arrive for joint projects with you guys frankly i think is pie in the sky. though happily mr cameron, of course, has committed gbp 6 billion of our money to this project and if ever you are short of money just ask mr cameron because he always pays up. but it is i think these grand projects that in many ways, i think, are sowing the seeds of the end of this political project. i came in here in 1999 and sat at the back and there were only three of us in the whole building who thought our member state should leave the european union. but it is grand projects that have turned the tide of public opinion, in particular the introduction of the euro. you know i warned you, we all warned you, that it would not work for the mediterranean countries. it could comfortably work for the optimal currency zone in the north. but no, through massive ambition and hubris you ploughed on and you allowed countries like greece to join a currency that they were never fit for. and what is happening to greece now? well they are facing the next bailout, in probably july of this year, and because you want to hold your project together you are forcing them, bit by bit, to become a third-world country. and all i can say, frankly, is shame on you. the other big grand project was to allow into this union first eight, and then ten, former communist countries, some of them with human rights records that are frankly shocking and abysmal, and others in which corruption is so rife that these countries have not made the transition to being full western democracies. when i was first elected here the word immigration did not even appear on my election address. we did not use that word once when the first three of us got elected here. but now, as we have allowed much poorer countries to have the free movement of peoples, we see considerable anger in britain and in many countries across the north of europe. and yes, it has led to the rise of parties that some may consider to be deeply unpleasant, but that is what happens when you take control out of people’s lives. and the other feature i have noticed here is the growth of what i can only describe as authoritarianism. you know, we actually saw the prime minister of greece removed effectively by a coup d’état and we saw mr berlusconi removed by a coup d’état and in both cases represented by appointees who were former directors of goldman sachs. so i think you have sowed the seeds of your own destruction. we have, in two weeks’ time, what is to be the biggest event in the history of this project. it is the british referendum and it is not just about whether britain leaves the european union, because if we make that choice i am confident many other countries will make that choice too. i did originally believe that we should leave because we were a square peg in a round hole. when i saw what happened here in 2005, when the french and dutch rejected the constitution and yet sneakily it was brought in through the back door as the lisbon treaty, i realised then that this is not just bad for britain; it is bad for the whole of europe. and i hope that on 23 june it is not just independence day for the united kingdom. i hope it brings an end to this entire project and in a few years’ time we could be sovereign, democratic nation states that work and trade together. i hope this is the last time i will be speaking in this parliament from a member state. i hope that we are going to leave this union on 23 june. and so i am going out now; i may be some time.
madam president, when i was flying back from strasbourg to london a few months ago, i looked down at the sea and i saw line after line of huge wind turbines, generating clean, green energy, and i thought: is this the juncker plan? is this efsi? but then i thought, maybe that was the project that was funded already by the european investment bank. it is great to see new investment in infrastructure. we need it, but we cannot be complacent because public confidence in european spending is at a very low level and we need to make sure that all the money is well spent. so when we are reviewing the performance of the fund for strategic investments, we should also evaluate how this programme relates to other eu funding, including the eib. we should make sure there is no overlapping of overheads and also double check whether science and research projects have suffered from having their budgets top-sliced.
madam president, efsi has been particularly successful in the united kingdom, with 1.9 billion financing in infrastructure and innovation projects and 462.3 million in sme financing already achieved. examples of efsi-backed projects include the roll-out of smart meters across a large number of households in the uk, the construction of a new teaching hospital in birmingham and the operation of an offshore farm in scotland. however my constituency of northern ireland has not been able to make such good progress, even though we have a barroso task force – now a juncker task force – set up so that northern ireland should do well. can you actually explain to me why northern ireland has not done so well? i will understand if you cannot accept my question today and i will accept your answer in writing down the road, if that is the case. but why have we not done more? is the problem in brussels? is it in london? is it in belfast? please tell me, because my people want to know because we want to make up and we are very supportive of this, so i hope you will respond to me.
madam president, in 1995 tunisia was the first mediterranean country to sign an association agreement with the european union and it now needs our help more than ever. mr maurel has set out very clearly the socialist group position on tunisia. we see three stages in this. firstly we think it is vital that the eu does more to assist tunisia in getting the ben ali money back to tunisia. some of that money is currently stuffed in eu banks, and that is an unacceptable situation. secondly, we do want a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with tunisia, but it has to be asymmetrical: we have to open up our markets more than we demand them opening up their markets because of the precarious economic situation in that country. and thirdly, of course we do welcome this macro-financial assistance to tunisia, but we want to emphasise that this is not a blank cheque and that we expect continued progress on multi-party democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the vote in parliament to establish a committee of inquiry into the panama papers revelations. the committee will comprise 65 members of the european parliament and will have 12 months to report. the panama papers revelations released by the international consortium of investigative journalists caused shockwaves around the world, including resignations from office by political figures implicated in the scandal. the panama papers – 11.5 million leaked files from the panama-based law firm mossack fonseca – have caused outrage around the world as the public have become aware of the extent of tax-dodging, money laundering and general criminality by the world’s wealthiest corporations and individuals, using offshore tax havens. this committee of inquiry will investigate possible contraventions and maladministration in the application of the law on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. a number of irish companies, business people, property developers and other individuals have been implicated in this scandal. it is vital that this committee has sufficient powers of inquiry to investigate the panama papers scandal effectively in order to identify the loopholes that need to be closed.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy, i wish to confirm i abstained on this resolution. i condemn money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. however, it is not for the european union to interfere in how the uk treasury investigates illegal activity. however, i do not believe that uk taxpayers’ money should be used to set up an eu committee of inquiry.
in writing. ‒ it has been almost three months since the unprecedented leak of documents known as the panama papers detailed how some people were succeeding in concealing their wealth to avoid paying tax. parliament has today agreed the mandate of the committee of inquiry into this scandal. i welcome the opportunity for us to raise the importance of the exchange of tax information between member states, and to better understand the measures needed to tackle tax avoidance. we have a duty to fight tax fraud and illegal activity and my constituents in wales quite rightly demand this.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the proposal. the new committee of inquiry will build on the work of the special tax committees set up 18 months ago and will address issues such as money laundering and the impact on third countries. we want full transparency and sanctions for those who help individuals and companies evade tax. fighting tax fraud, tax avoidance, and eradicating tax havens must become a top priority of the eu. otherwise, the overwhelming majority of people who pay their taxes will not understand and will turn their back on the european project.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of palau when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency, i wish to confirm i voted against this report. i do not believe that the european union should be negotiating waiving visa agreements on behalf of the uk.
in writing. ‒ this agreement between the eu and palau will open up opportunities and advantages for both the citizens of palau and the eu, as any existing visa requirements for eu citizens to travel to palau will be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ i supported this agreement to enable visa-free travel between other eu member states and palau, tonga and columbia. the agreements would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreements with these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement to enable visa-free travel between other eu member states and palau. the agreement would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreement with this country.
in writing. ‒ this agreement between the eu and palau will open up opportunities and advantages for both the citizens of palau and the eu, as any existing visa requirements for eu citizens to travel to palau will be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ labour meps supported this agreement to enable visa-free travel between other eu member states and palau, tonga and columbia. the agreements would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreements with these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of tonga when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i voted against this report. i do not believe that the european union should be negotiating waiving visa agreements on behalf of the uk.
in writing. ‒ this agreement between the eu and tonga will open up opportunities and advantages for both the citizens of tonga and the eu, as any existing visa requirements for eu citizens to travel to tonga will be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ i support this agreement to enable visa-free travel between other eu member states and palau, tonga and colombia. the agreements would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreements with these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement to enable visa-free travel between other eu member states and tonga. the agreement would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreement with this country.
in writing. ‒ this agreement between the eu and tonga will open up opportunities and advantages for both the citizens of tonga and the eu, as any existing visa requirements for eu citizens to travel to tonga will be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support this agreement to enable visa-free travel between other eu member states and palau, tonga and colombia. the agreements would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreements with these countries.
in writing. ‒ this was a technical report which was concerned with the croatia joining the eu-colombia / peru free trade agreement. as i oppose the free trade agreement, and am also concerned about serious human rights violations in colombia, i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i voted against this report. i do not believe that the european union should be negotiating waiving visa agreements on behalf of the uk.
in writing. ‒ this agreement between the eu and colombia will open up opportunities and advantages for both the citizens of colombia and the eu, as any existing visa requirements for eu citizens to travel to colombia will be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ i support this agreement to enable visa-free travel between other eu member states and palau, tonga and colombia. the agreements would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreements with these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement to enable visa-free travel between other eu member states and colombia. the agreement would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreement with this country.
in writing. ‒ this agreement between the eu and colombia will open up opportunities and advantages for both the citizens of colombia and the eu, as any existing visa requirements for eu citizens to travel to colombia will be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support this agreement to enable visa-free travel between other eu member states and palau, tonga and colombia. the agreements would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreements with these countries.
in writing. ‒ this report had a particularly regressive and unconstructive agenda. its aim was to increase developing countries’ dependence on it multinationals by expanding the information technology products agreement (ita)ita is a trade agreement which primarily profitable large companies who can now buy and sell these products without any tariffs. ita signatories often argue that the agreement is very good for developing countries because it will increase their trade and therefore their gdp. in reality, not many developing countries are signatories to the agreement. with every expansion of the agreement it will be harder for them not to join the agreement as the agreement increases their dependency. moreover, when tariffs are eliminated, developing countries will also lose a significant amount income out of duties that they would normally receive from their exports. therefore, this is an agreement that will not help developing countries develop; it will only help multinationals trading in technology (related) products. it was for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i abstained. i do not believe that the european union should be negotiating trade agreements on behalf of the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the expanded information technology agreement should provide a boost to the eu manufacturing sector and will benefit consumers, producers and the economies of both the eu and partner countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as it is a success story for eu trade policy with measurable positive effects and it shows that plurilateral agreements can be achieved through the wto.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal. the expanded ita will boost the eu manufacturing sector, allowing easier access to new markets and, as its predecessor it will continue to promote jobs, offer lower prices to consumers and boost economic growth and foster innovation. it will benefit consumers, producers and the economies of both the eu and partner countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is a success story for eu trade policy with measurable positive effects and it shows that plurilateral agreements can be achieved through the wto.
in writing. ‒ this represents a success for eu trade policy with measurable and positive effects, showing that plurilateral agreements can be achieved through the world trade organisation as a platform.
in writing. ‒ i shadowed this report and i was pleased with the direction of the report. the report was concerned with subjecting a new psychoactive substance to control measures. the report further invited member states to subject the substance in question to control measures provided by their own legislation by virtue of their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. most member states have already done so. as a member of the civil liberties, justice and home affairs committee, i have followed legislation on these substances very carefully. their availability is a cause of great concern and the effect some of these substances have on users is horrific. in relation to this particular substance, more than a 130 deaths have been associated with a-pvp and non-lethal side effects include cardiotoxicity, violent behaviour and displays of psychotic behaviour. sinn féin have been at the forefront of calling on member states to legislate as efficiently as possible to prevent these substances from gaining a foothold in the illicit market.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i abstained. this report is the result of a consultation on the alpha-pvp drug. i am in favour of drug control measures however this report has no relevance to the uk.
in writing. ‒ i approve of the efforts to reduce the use of these sorts of psychoactive substances, hence why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in line with socialist meps on this, with our objective being the reduction of the use of these harmful substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it calls upon the member states to subject α-pvp to control measures and criminal penalties which are in line with the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances, which all member states have ratified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to subject α-pvp to control measures. the uk is not bound by the decision and has decided to not take part in the adoption of this decision.
in writing. ‒ the socialist meps in the libe committee have done excellent work on this file, achieving our overarching objective of reducing the use of these kinds of substances.
in writing. ‒ this was a single vote on an interim report calling for dialogue between this eu institutions to coordinate a compensation scheme for victims of hazardous and noxious substance spilling at sea. it seeks to protect coastal communities and fishing communities beyond the liability limits of the ship owner which is an important development. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i abstained. the eu does not have the legal power to sign up to this convention even though it would like to. instead the eu is forcing member states to sign up individually. this is another example of the european union enforcing its will even when it does not have the legal power to do so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this file, which sets out some guidance to the council on its accession to a new protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it sets out some guidance to the council on its accession to a new protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to give consent to the form the negotiations should take on this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i want to see the swift ratification of this protocol, but the council of the eu needs to reconsider its position and it should see that it is not beneficial to create legal uncertainty and divisions between legal regimes in member states in an issue that has so many cross-border implications.
in writing. ‒ this was a single vote on an interim report calling for dialogue between this eu institutions to coordinate a compensation scheme for victims of hazardous and noxious substance spilling at sea. it seeks to protect coastal communities and fishing communities beyond the liability limits of the ship owner which is an important development. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i abstained on this report. i am in favour of international action to ensure that where possible pollution caused by hazardous and noxious substances by sea is prevented. i support the idea that the polluter should pay and that a regime is in place for clearing up that pollution. however these are matters that should solely be the province of sovereign governments of member states and not subject to an undemocratic instruction from the european council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this file, which sets out some guidance to the council on its accession to a new protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it sets out some guidance to the council on its accession to a new protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to give consent to the form the negotiations should take on this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i want to see the swift ratification of this protocol, but the council of the eu needs to reconsider its position and should see that it is not beneficial to create a legal uncertainty and divisions between legal regimes in member states on an issue that has so many cross-border implications.
in writing. ‒ this report was a technical acknowledgement of croatia’s accession to the eu. i abstained on this voted as i have concerns regarding the agreement between the eu and the philippines. however, i am in favour of the full accession of croatia to the eu, so therefore, with these concerns in mind, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i voted against this report. i do not believe it is in the interest of the british people that the european union is negotiating any framework with the philippines on regards to the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines. it express concerns about the potential spread of isis in south east asia but encourages the philippine government to continue fostering further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it is simply a technical file to adapt the additional protocol to the agreement taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as it considers the republic of croatia, the newest member state to join the eu, in this framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines. we will continue to insist on respect for human rights, better labour and social standards and efforts to implement better environmental rights in this country.
in writing. ‒ this was a consent vote on the partnership and cooperation framework agreement which provides an overarching strategic political framework for strengthening philippines -eu bilateral cooperation and a legal framework for further engagement between the eu and the philippines across a broad range of areas, including political dialogue, trade, energy, transport, investment, human rights, education, science and technology, justice, asylum and migration. it also includes areas of current interest such as the mindanao peace process and disaster risk management. negotiations with the philippines began in 2009 and were concluded in 2010 and the agreement was signed in july 2012. one of the aims of the framework agreement is also to constitute the political framework for further negotiations on the eu free trade agreement with the philippines. i have a number of concerns regarding free trade agreements, however, this is not a fta and so therefore, i abstained on the final vote, as this framework agreement has positive aspects in the area of human rights, education, culture and health issues, such as sanitary and phytosanitary issues also related to animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i voted against this report. i do not believe it is in the interest of the british people that the european union-philippines framework should be given consent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines. it express concerns about the potential spread of isis in south east asia but encourages the philippine government to continue fostering further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the proposal as the pca with the philippines marks an important step towards strengthening bilateral relations and the eu’s role in south-east asia, based on shared universal values such as democracy and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, this resolution welcomes the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines. it express concerns about the potential spread of isis in south east asia but encourages the philippine government to continue fostering further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting consent to this framework agreement on the partnership and cooperation between the eu and the philippines. we will continue to insist on respect for human rights, better labour and social standards and efforts to implement better environmental rights in this country.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i voted against this report. i do not believe it is in the interest of the british people that the european union is negotiating any framework with the philippines.
in writing. ‒ despite support for enhanced cooperation, concerns remain over human rights issues in the philippines. however, i believe the underlying significance of cooperation between the eu and the philippines is that increased trade and investment will be critical in helping to solve many of these very problems. opening up markets will empower the filipino people, creating wealth and prosperity and a new socio-economic class that will have the clout and stability needed in order to achieve real change. they will be the leaders of tomorrow who will be best suited to tackling pressing domestic concerns, including the human rights issues brought up by my colleagues. nonetheless, the philippines should be commended in other areas, such as the mindanao peace settlement with the moro islamic liberation front – it is a significant political achievement – as is the republic act criminalising enforced disappearances. let us also hope that the philippines adopts an even-handed approach in the ever more unstable south china sea and that the security risk that is abu sayyaf, a terrorist group linked with al qaeda and daesh, is swiftly dealt with.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines. it express concerns about the potential spread of isis in south-east asia but encourages the philippine government to continue fostering further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution as it welcomes the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines. it express concerns about the potential spread of isis in south-east asia but encourages the philippine government to continue fostering further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, this resolution welcomes the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines. it express concerns about the potential spread of isis in south-east asia but encourages the philippine government to continue fostering further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the framework agreement on the partnership and cooperation between the eu and the philippines. we will continue to insist on respect for human rights, better labour and social standards and efforts to implement better environmental rights in this country.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy and transparency, i wish to confirm that i voted against this report. i do not believe it is in the interest of the british people that the european union is sending british taxpayers’ money to tunisia. tunisia is experiencing balance-of-payment difficulties; it is a very corrupt country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative report – it is in our common interest to have a secure neighbourhood. this is a good way to help tunisia further consolidate its democracy. i believe that this will provide an environment which attracts greater investment, and which will urgently tackle the problem of unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in order to support tunisia following its recent political upheaval. this legislative report represents the eu’s commitment to the country and desire to see the country bring about an environment which is more conducive to investment and will address the urgent problem of unemployment in this area.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal. in 2015 tunisia’s economy has been significantly affected by several terrorist attacks that have targeted key economic industries like tourism and transport as well as aiming to disrupt the consolidation of its political transition. the assistance will target structural reforms aimed at improving the overall macroeconomic management and the conditions for sustainable growth (e.g. targeting the transparency and efficiency of public finance management; fiscal reforms; reforms to strengthen the social safety net; labour market reforms; and reforms to improve the regulatory framework for trade and investment).
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report to support the commission proposal to provide assistance to tunisia which will target structural reforms aimed at improving the overall macroeconomic management and the conditions for sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ i support this measure as a way to help tunisia further consolidate its democracy since the recent political upheaval. this legislative report represents the eu’s commitment to the country and desire to see the country bring about an environment which is more conducive to investment and will address the urgent problem of unemployment in this area.
in writing. ‒ i supported much of the content of this resolution which aims to tackle tax avoidance by corporations operating in the european single market. however, i voted against this overall proposal despite many positive aspects as sinn féin is determined to ensure that tax sovereignty remains in the hands of member states. changes to tax law aimed at ending loopholes for tax avoidance should be made by national parliaments working as part of an effective international framework -– which is currently being led by the oecd. many aspects of the report aimed to implement the oecd base erosion and profit shifting (beps) plan, which i supported. i supported amendments criticising the role of so-called knowledge boxes as tax avoidance mechanisms. certain aspects of the commission proposal and parliament resolution go beyond the oecd beps recommendations, including on exit taxation and switchover clauses, which i could not support. while these may be effective mechanisms for combating tax avoidance, our approach is that we want to implement the oecd beps recommendations in member states and eu law where appropriate now – but that we want to continue seeing countries engaging in an international framework as the primary vehicle for combating global tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this legislative resolution as the proposals forget that minimising tax liabilities is not just a right but a duty for company directors. general rules against minimising tax are open to subjective interpretation and consequently add to business uncertainty. this would reduce foreign investment into uk companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on tax avoidance practices that directly affect the functioning of the internal market. the eu needs to do all it can to fight tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. my constituents in wales want to see a better system in which everyone pays their fair share, and multinational corporations and multimillionaires contribute like everybody else.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the anti-tax avoidance directive. sadly, the scandal of aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion is costing the eu billions every year, meaning schools and hospitals going unbuilt and the tax burden falling on those who can least afford it. the commission’s original proposals for the directive were a step in the right direction, but parliament’s report today pushes them to be even more ambitious. the hope is that national finance ministers will listen to the views of parliament and agree the most ambitious directive possible at their meeting on 19 june. furthermore, it shows that we are far more effective at dealing with the scourge of aggressive tax avoidance as part of the eu and not in isolation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the anti-tax avoidance directive because the scandal of aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion is costing the eu billions every year, which puts a huge strain on our economies. the commission’s original proposals for the directive were a step in the right direction, but parliament’s report today pushes them to be even bolder still.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal but against the parliamentary resolution. i fully support the eu’s efforts to tackle tax avoidance but am opposed to a common consolidated corporate tax base. parliament’s efforts to conflate these two issues is deeply misguided. parliament’s amendments have little chance of getting through council and it is a shame that this house has proceeded in this manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the anti-tax avoidance directive because the scandal of aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion is costing the eu billions every year, meaning schools and hospitals going unbuilt and the tax burden falling on those who can least afford it. the commission’s original proposals for the directive were a step in the right direction, but parliament’s report today pushes them to be even bolder still. national finance ministers should listen to the views of parliament and agree the most ambitious directive possible at their meeting on 19 june.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the anti-tax avoidance directive because the scandal of aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion is costing the eu billions every year, meaning schools and hospitals not being built and the tax burden falling on those who can least afford it. the commission’s original proposals for the directive were a step in the right direction, but parliament’s report today pushes them to be even bolder still. national finance ministers should listen to the views of parliament and agree the most ambitious directive possible at their meeting on 19 june.
in writing. ‒ hugues has been incredibly ambitious in this report and has managed to get a fantastic message in the final text. hence, i voted in favour of this report. the scandal of aggressive tax avoidance and evasion costs member states billions every year; this means that schools and hospitals go under-funded or unbuilt. it pushes the burden of public funds on those who are least able to afford it. the commission’s original proposal for a directive were a step in the right direction, but parliament’s report today pushes them to be even bolder still. national finance ministers should listen to the views of parliament and agree the most ambitious directive possible at their meeting on 19 june.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the anti-tax avoidance directive because the scandal of aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion is costing the eu billions every year, meaning schools and hospitals going unbuilt and the tax burden falling on those who can least afford it. the commission’s original proposals for the directive were a step in the right direction, but parliament’s report today pushes them to be even bolder still. national finance ministers should listen to the views of parliament and agree the most ambitious directive possible at their meeting on 19 june.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the anti-tax avoidance directive because the scandal of aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion is costing the eu billions every year, meaning schools and hospitals going unbuilt and the tax burden falling on those who can least afford it. the commission’s original proposals for the directive were a step in the right direction, but parliament’s report today pushes them to be even bolder still. national finance ministers should listen to the views of parliament and agree the most ambitious directive possible at their meeting on 19 june.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the anti-tax avoidance directive because aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion are central causes of global inequality and social injustice. in the eu alone, such practices cost the tax-payers millions, and mean that schools and hospitals are underfunded. politicians who have imposed austerity and public sector cuts, condemning the weakest in society to poverty and exclusion, often tell us that their measures are inevitable and technical. and yet we see that austerity, as with the decision of who tax and who not to tax, are political decisions. i am glad to see that the eu is now taking this very important step towards global social justice. the commission’s original proposals for the directive were a step in the right direction, in line with oecd position, but parliament’s report today pushes them to be bolder still. national finance ministers must take the parliament’s position on board parliament and agree the most ambitious directive possible at their meeting on 19 june. the eu must be a world leader in the fight to tackle tax injustice, as it is the only actor that is able to act on this on the international stage.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it is rightly highly critical of the cia and of eu member states that facilitated or supported their torturous actions. the resolution calls for further and transparent investigations into allegations and for proper judicial punishments for those complicit in illegal torture. it also calls for those member states and the us to be more cooperative with investigations.
in writing. ‒ as a whole i abstained on this report. i believe that transparency is the cornerstone of any democratic society and a government´s actions should be accountable to its people. national security should not be invoked by a government with the primary aim of blocking public scrutiny. however i voted against the resolution naming the united kingdom as ‘complicit’ in the cia’s detention and interrogation programme. i do not agree and voted as such against the resolution calling for more ‘fact-finding missions’ to be organised by the european parliament to the uk and other member states named in this document.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it voices serious concerns at the apathy shown by member states and eu institutions about recognising the multiple fundamental rights violations and torture that took place in us cia rendition operations on european soil between 2001 and 2006, and it urges them to investigate these violations and to bring those responsible for or complicit in them to justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on space capabilities, as it is essentially calling for the militarisation of space.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i do not believe that in the long term the eu must have its own instruments to establish a ‘defence union.’
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on space capabilities for european security and defence. the priority of space programmes should not be military. it also uses migration in order to justify far reaching public investment in these projects. it is vital to my constituents in wales that funding is spent beneficially.
in writing. ‒ satellite technologies are a vital part of the modern world, for instance if you are setting up a small business or buying goods on your smartphone. the uk works together with the rest of the eu to deliver high quality satellite networks which keep our economy running. without the eu, britain would not be able to build and operate a satellite network fit for our economic needs, and that is one of the myriad reasons why we must remain a member of the eu. however, this non-legislative report offers ideas which could interfere in what should be member state or industry driven activity, and this lead me to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote, due to the fact that this non legislative report encroaches in areas that should be led by member states. nevertheless, satellite technologies are essential a huge variety of activities, such as setting up a small business or buying goods on your smartphone. without the eu, britain would not be able to build and operate a satellite network fit for our economic needs, so it is vital we stay in the eu.
in writing. ‒ whether you are setting up a small business or buying goods on your smartphone, it would not happen without satellite technologies. britain works together with the rest of the eu to deliver high quality satellite networks which keep our economy running. without the eu, britain wouldn’t be able to build and operate a satellite network fit for our economic needs, so it is vital we stay in the eu. however, this non legislative report offers ideas which could interfere in what should be member state or industry driven activity. we therefore abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ whether you are setting up a small business or buying goods on your smartphone, it wouldn’t be possible without satellite technologies. the uk works together with the rest of the eu to deliver high-quality satellite networks which keep our economy running. without the eu, britain wouldn’t be able to build and operate a satellite network fit for our economic demands; this is also why it is vital that we stay in the eu. however, this non-legislative report offers ideas which could interfere in what should be the sole activity of a member state or industry-driven activity. for this reason i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ whether you are setting up a small business or buying goods on your smartphone, it wouldn’t happen without satellite technologies. britain works together with the rest of the eu to deliver high quality satellite networks which keep our economy running. without the eu, britain wouldn’t be able to build and operate a satellite network fit for our economic needs, so it is vital we stay in the eu. however, this non-legislative report offers ideas which could interfere in what should be member state or industry driven activity. we therefore abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which calls for more market access in space, increased marketing promotion and for more funding eu regarding space developments. the resolution completely fails to critical assess this unnecessary spending, and moreover there are even parts in which they basically say that public spending is necessary to stimulate private sector investments. also, there is nowhere in the resolution a clear distinction between military functionality of the eu space assets, and civilian and peaceful use. because of that, i recommend to vote against.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution. space policy is a fundamental contributor to the implementation of union’s policies and thus needs to be given a high level of recognition in boosting eu economic activity and creating jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, which was a blatant attempt to join in foreign interference in venezuela, worsening the situation there and increasing tensions. despite talking about human rights, aid, and helping resolve the political tensions in venezuela, the resolution was clearly biased in favour of the venezuelan opposition, reflecting their demands and claims, while failing to give a balanced view of the situation in venezuela. failing to acknowledge the impact of a fall in oil prices, evidence of economic sabotage, and the effect of a severe drought on venezuela’s hydroelectric sector, the resolution blames the government for the situation in venezuela. the resolution also echoes the opposition call for hundreds of prisoners to be released, included many who were involved in organising violent protests that led to several deaths. because this was a blatant attempt to interfere in the internal politics of venezuela, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution, as it supports the ongoing unasur mediation efforts and offers pragmatic solutions for unlocking the situation. i believe that the only possible solution to the current venezuelan crisis is a political one, through mediation and national dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint-motion resolution because it welcomes the mediation efforts initiated at the invitation of unasur to launch a national dialogue process between the executive and the opposition represented by the majority components of the mud. the motion also calls on president nicolas maduro and his government to implement urgent economic reforms in cooperation with the national assembly in order to find a constructive solution to the economic and energy crises, in particular the shortage of food and medicines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint-motion resolution because it welcomes the mediation efforts initiated at the invitation of unasur to launch a national dialogue process between the executive and the opposition, and maintaining the rule of law in the country. the motion also calls on president nicolas maduro and his government to implement urgent economic reforms in cooperation with the national assembly in order to find a constructive solution to the economic and energy crises, in particular the shortage of food and medicines. while the situation in venezuela remains complex, and many on the left remain weary venezuela’s opposition, the government must take responsibility for the situation of the country after so many years in power.
in writing. ‒ this joint motion for resolution condemns the commission for its failure to comply with its obligations in the biocides regulation. it calls on the commission to come forward with the criteria which the commission has already stated that it will do this month. by way of background information, endocrine disrupting chemicals are mostly man-made substances which are found in various products such as pesticides, plastics and other consumer products. they are strongly linked to hormone-related diseases/conditions and cancers such as breast cancer or testicular cancer. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this joint motion for resolution.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i abstained. i abstained on the grounds that any other vote accepts eu competence on these matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the commission’s failure to adequately address the problem of substances that interfere with the endocrine system is potentially very harmful to my constituents. the people of wales always put public health and well-being before the profits of big business.
in writing. ‒ we strongly condemn continuous and incomprehensible delays in defining clear rules on chemicals which are believed to cause many serious diseases. we call on the commission to comply with the general court ruling by submitting strict criteria for endocrine disruptors based on science and not on socio-economic considerations.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i abstained. i abstained on the grounds that any other vote accepts eu competence on these matters.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion to object to the commission’s draft authorisation decisions because gm maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 was engineered to confer resistance to the european corn borer and the western rootworm, however it is also resistant to glyphosate and other herbicides. all these four different genes come in one variety and as such are non-separable.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of democracy and transparency i wish to confirm i abstained. it shows how the eu wants to legislate for everything including trivial matters such as carnations. i abstained on the grounds that any other vote accepts eu competence on these matters.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion to object to the commission’s draft authorisation decisions for these new gm varieties because the gm carnation was engineered to have its colour changed as well as to be resistant to spraying by herbicides. gm maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 was engineered to confer resistance to the european corn borer and the western rootworm, however it is also resistant to glyphosate and other herbicides. all these four different genes come in one variety and as such are non-separable.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the purported aim of this legislation is to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. so today we have the latest gift to those that threaten us, whose activities will directly benefit from this proposal, and a proposal that will only further undermine national security and create further pressures on our security resources. the civil status documents to be ‘harmonised’ via this proposal are the very ones that preserve distinctiveness and act as barriers, two aspects that should be safeguarded and left in the domain of national governments, precisely to thwart the intent of those who will benefit from a one—size—fits—all approach. we all know about the cheapness of fraudulent eu passports, we know about the extent of stolen eu passports and other identifications, so why add to the plethora of stuff out there that only helps people who actually threaten us? i am left scratching my head completely at this proposal. its timing is ill-judged, its purpose is ill-judged, and it benefits people who actually want to hurt and threaten us. so i strongly recommend you to put it back on the shelf – if you can’t abandon it completely – and stop gifting things like this to people who will harm us. this is wrong time, wrong place, wrong proposal.
on behalf of the efdd group. – thank you very much, madam president. of course, in the united kingdom, a lot of the debate on the european union at the moment – as you know, we have a referendum coming up on june – is focussing on matters of security. we are being told by the remain campaign that somehow britain would not be secure if we were to leave the european union. of course we get most of our information on international terrorism in the uk from the five eyes alliance, which doesn’t require political union or the handing—over of sovereignty. we also participate in interpol, which has 190 members and was established long before europol, just adding to the fact that nato has kept the peace in europe since 1945. they also lead on counter—terrorism and have a centre of excellence, focusing on cyber—crime, in estonia. but having said all of that, of course, we in the uk want to continue to work together with our neighbours and friends across europe. this is not a debate about brexit in the uk or to say that the uk wants to be some kind of ‘little england’ separated from the continent; rather we want to be a united kingdom that takes its place in the wider world, but continues to be good friends and good neighbours with europe. so of course a post—brexit uk would continue to want to be good friends and good neighbours with europe and to share data, perhaps, in the right way. however, in terms of this report, as we are seeing today, there will be questions about what data will be collected on citizens. there will be questions to be asked, i am sure, at a later date.
madam president, i have always said that we must use every tool available in the fight against terror and serious organised crime. it is vital that we make it easier to enable information-sharing and cooperation to take place between national governments. terrorism, of course, knows no borders: it is extremely important that there is as much transnational cooperation as possible, particularly in terms of data sharing. we have come a long way in cross-border cooperation, so let us not slow down or stop now. i welcome the recent vote in the parliament on passenger name record (pnr). the recent phenomenon of so-called foreign fighters returning from the middle east poses many challenges for our intelligence agencies, and collecting pnr data can be instrumental in detecting and tracking suspicious behaviour of radicalised individuals. in terms of transnational cooperation in the fight against terror we should also note that the european arrest warrant has played an instrumental role in tackling dissident republican terrorism and serious organised crime in my own constituency of northern ireland and the border with the republic of ireland. i notice that the commissioner in his address spoke of gaps. today, commissioner – and to the council – you cannot afford to have any gaps in border security. you must have better border control. schengen has proved not to be effective. commissioner, it is extremely wise not to leave your back door wide open.
mr president, stripping parliamentary immunity from politicians facing criminal investigation is usually something we would welcome in a democracy such as this house. unfortunately, in this case, the proceedings appear to be politically motivated – a kind of collective punishment primarily aimed at weakening the kurdish-majority hdp. president erdoğan sees them as proxies for the pkk fighting in south-east turkey. mr erdoğan also seems intent on acquiring unchecked presidential powers to match the magnificence of his newly constructed, sultanesque palace. in order to reach the all-crucial number of 367 seats that are required to amend the constitution without a referendum, he is pulling out all of the stops he can. having dispensed with his unruly prime minister, he is now focusing on support outside of his ak party. as bahçeli support within his own nationalist mhp party is waning after 20 years as leader, erdoğan now appears to have made a deal with his former rival, using the apparatus of the state to support bahçeli’s leadership in exchange for his support in the grand assembly. democracy and the rule of law are now under threat in turkey, and this is just the latest move in a bigger game to undermine those values for erdogan’s ak, neo-islamist, autocratic agenda. turkey clearly has enormous value to the eu as a candidate country. it is a nato ally and a necessary partner in the deal to stem the flow of refugees from the syrian conflict, but erdoğan is turning his country into one far from the secular democracy of 20 years ago, and we should all be very alarmed by that.
blue-card question. – you said a lot of things that actually i agree with in your speech. do you agree that one potential consequence of the failure to defend industries, whether it is in the uk or in any other country in europe, is that that can then mean that those industries are moved to countries with lower standards of regulation and therefore we end up virtually outsourcing pollution?
mr president, i would like to say to the minister that effective trade defences are a precondition to free and fair trade. the closure of the ssi steel plant in redcar in my constituency, minister, shows the human cost of your inaction in the council to ensure fair prices in global markets. our current trade defence instruments have been insufficient to shield our manufacturing industries, particularly the steel industry, from unfair competition and excess capacity. a majority of eu member states support their modernisation, as do meps and the commission, but in an example of how the eu does not force its will on member states, the uk government and its allies have been able to block this reform for more than two years. well, today it is time for the uk to use its real influence in brussels to support the eu reforms needed by our communities, rather than hindering them further. we do not need to hurt our industries anymore. save our steel industry.
mr president, in my constituency, the north-east of england, we have been hit incredibly hard by the crisis in the steel industry. it has cost thousands of jobs in redcar directly and thousands more in the supply chain. it is a complex issue, but one of the key components is chinese dumping on the world market. so in terms of trade defence instruments, i suppose the decision that is facing the uk in 15 days’ time is, do we do these things ourselves in the uk or should they continue to be done at eu level? and indeed, would it even change anything because the eu anti-dumping rules are very much based on the wto anti-dumping rules. and you know what, i agree to an extent with my north-east colleague, jude kirton darling, who said that we have been far too slow. but you know what? if the uk had the power to deal with these things ourselves straight away, we could not hide behind the european council. we could not hide behind anything that is happening here. we would be able to take a decision straightforwardly and immediately for ourselves, rather than have to negotiate a position with 27 other countries, and actually the uk is going in a slightly different direction. america dealt with this very quickly. it slapped a huge tariff on imported steel and it was able to protect its industries. we should have been able to do the same. if we were an independent, self-governing nation again in the united kingdom, one of two things would happen – either the conservative government would take action, it would protect our industry, it would put on those tariffs for itself and we would save those jobs in the uk. or the government would sit on its hands, refuse to help its own industry, in which case we could jolly well vote them back out again in a couple of years’ time at the next general election. that is democracy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – first of all, of course the united kingdom would be able to do that itself. my understanding is that the uk is not opposing action on this, it just wants to do it in a different way to the rest of the european union. we would find out whether the british government is hiding behind that, using it as an excuse back home, or whether it really means it. and no, of course a uk that was free to make trade deals across the globe, a uk that had our democracy back, had our sovereignty back, had control of our borders, a uk that had the freedom to look at the wider world would not be a uk that would mired in nothingness. it would be a uk for the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the words of this resolution might easily have been written with the upcoming uk referendum on brexit in mind. with the development of the competences of the european union, citizens are increasingly confronted with the union’s institutions, bodies, offices and agencies without always having their procedural rights adequately protected. there you have the heart of the matter. the eu has become a bureaucratic monster that pervades all areas of life in the member states, so wide are its competences and so untrammelled its powers. the vast majority of uk citizens have absolutely nothing to do with the eu, yet their lives are routinely interfered with by the activities of the eu. when we think of eu administration, the words ‘open’, ‘efficient’ and ‘independent’ certainly never cross our minds. as for the proposed regulation contemplated by the resolution, it is surely a joke. what rational, efficient civil service needs a regulation to tell it how to administer? it is a document written for the kingdom of ruritania or some foundling post-colonial state. the british electorate will be underwhelmed by the promises and stated objectives of this regulation. instead, our voters will think that this is a document, a parody, worthy of the famous television comedy, ‘yes minister’. the eu has a well—merited reputation for having a deeply entrenched and ingrained habit of opaque, inefficient and less than independent administration. it will take more than a tick-box regulation to change that habit. old dogs don’t learn new tricks.
madam president, there are elements today which mirror last night’s debate in so far as the distorting actions of china are concerned. china is not a market economy; to propose giving it market economy status is like something out of alice in wonderland. indeed the uk rail supply industry contributes over gbp 9 billion a year to the british economy; it employs over 200 000 people. but whereas the uk rail supply industry has taken a market approach, it has had a battering as others have not taken that same approach. it is estimated that just 10% of uk revenue in this sector comes from exports, compared with 20% in france and 50% in germany. i would also say that we need to develop a more skilled workforce in the uk, where we need to do better in terms of technology, in terms of research and development, as we move towards the future. indeed, just 1 in 6 people working in this sector at present have level 4 qualifications in a relevant area. so it is estimated that thousands of highly-skilled jobs are needed, and do you know what? this is something that is a perfect example of why we need proper skilled immigration through a points-based system, as opposed to a free-for-all.
madam president, it was with real pride that i attended the opening of hitachi rail europe’s new train production plant at newton aycliffe last summer in my constituency. a real success story of what we should be promoting in the north-east of england in terms of inward investment and local job creation. all credit to the local community, our local unions, county durham’s investment team, and the local mp phil wilson, who worked together to attract rail production back to the very place that the very first passenger trains were built – in the world, i should stress. on monday this week, the chairman of hitachi made it clear that, while respecting the democratic rights of uk citizens, brexit would force hitachi and similar companies to re-think, because they still have a european vision and would be disadvantaged in pursuing it from the uk, meaning less investment in my region and fewer good local jobs. we urgently need a modern industrial policy and we urgently need a european commissioner who gets it. for the european rail supply industry, today’s report sets out clearly the challenges for the sector, and i congratulate my colleague, martina, on the report. but for british rail production and its workforce of thousands, nothing is as urgent as ensuring that we remain in the eu on 23 june.
madam president, trade can be one of two things when it comes to helping developing countries. when done properly, when done sensitively, when done fairly, trade can develop a country’s economy. it can create jobs and it can develop exports and help that nation to be able to import the things it cannot produce. but, when done badly, as i fear is the case in cambodia, it becomes a cynical exploitation of that country’s natural resources. in this situation, in particular, we see serious concerns over the land grabbing which has taken place in recent years, and indeed is picking up apace. then there are the human rights abuses: there are the political prisoners, the lack of democracy and massive abuse. what i would say simply, in terms of development aid in such situations, is that it is vital that we are incredibly careful that development aid is not going directly to the cambodian government.
author. – mr president, like many post-soviet states tajikistan experienced a traumatic and deadly birth as a country. the civil war between islamists and secularists is estimated to have cost the lives of 100 000 people before the peace accords of 1997. since then, president rahmon has ensconced himself in office and many of the divisions we see today are a continuation of those seen during the civil war. as rahmon enjoys his fourth term now as president, and he has acquired the right to stand again without limits, the fruits of his leadership are not those that we would have hoped for in a more democratic society. arrests and detentions of political opposition figures, disappearances in collusion with moscow, clampdowns on journalists and civil society – the list is not an enviable one. we also see, at the geopolitical level, tajikistan falling more closely back into the orbit of russia. as a member of the eurasian union which is stagnating economically right now, and economically so reliant on the remittances sent back home from workers living and working in russia, we see little hope of tajikistan moving in a western direction in terms of democratic, political and economic norms.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the english have an idiomatic proverb that says ‘you cannot have your cake and eat it’, which is used to illustrate trade-offs. this aptly summarises the situation of the eu relationship with vietnam, which is a dysfunctional one. in february 2016, the european union signed a free trade agreement with vietnam on the usual expectation that vietnam would do something about its human rights, and that the human rights situation would improve. well, clearly it has not done so, and the recent obama visit proved exactly that. the message to the european union therefore is: dispense with your expectations; stop using trade as a lever; recognise that the world is changing and the era of using trade to influence human rights is long gone, and, finally, that european union imperialist pretensions are not only not working but, indeed, are counterproductive in the sphere of human rights.
mr president, i appreciate the concerns expressed in the joint resolution. it fairly reflects the views on the latest developments in vietnam shared by my colleagues, at least within the european parliament. while a strong message of condemnation can be sent, the resolution is particularly critical in some areas. i would have appreciated a more carefully calibrated message that makes the vietnamese feel that they can be part of the solution, rather than the problem itself. comprehensive domestic reform should always be encouraged, but our top-down approach may not yield the results that we are looking to ultimately achieve. let us be as pragmatic as possible because when we punish the vietnamese government we punish their people, including the most unfortunate, whether we like it or not.
in writing. ‒ this new public documents regulation is a key measure that benefits citizens exercising their rights to live anywhere within the european union. it allows official certificates of birth, death, nationality and some other similarly important documents to be accepted more readily by relevant authorities throughout the eu without the need to pay for expensive administration or translation procedures. the regulation allows for user-friendly multilingual standard forms. it does not encroach upon the rights of member states to issue official certificates and it respects their jurisdiction to conclude bilateral international agreements with third countries on such matters. the new regulation also supports public authorities making proper enquiries of their counterparts in other eu countries through innovative information technology coordination and systems to help ensure that free movement for people operates smoothly.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy, i would like to confirm i voted in favour of this proposal to reject the council´s position on this matter. the eu wants to promote free movement by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents. this would mean the uk is forced to recognise civil documents produced as part of the right to freedom of movement. this will lead to an enforced lowering of the guard on checking the veracity of the contents and the genuine nature of the document itself. this is a criminal and forger´s dream and is a threat to the security of our country, and it will curtail the uk´s ability to properly check documentation. the case for the need for this legislation has not been made out. the claimed keystone of this regulation is the creation of multilingual standard forms for most public documents concerned. this is clearly the precursor to an eu-wide and eu-controlled system of civil documentation. finally, as a matter of principle, i disagree with the unelected eu civil servants enforcing legislation on the british people.
in writing. – ukip voted today in favour of rejecting the delvaux report on promoting free movement by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents. enforcing a regime under which member states are, effectively, forced to recognise certain civil documents produced as part of the exercise of the right to freedom of movement will lead to an enforced lowering of the guard on checking the veracity of the contents and genuineness of the document itself. this is a criminal and terrorist forger’s charter and is a threat to the security of the uk and our ability properly to check documentation. it affects only 2.4% of the population of the entire eu: the case for the need for this legislation has not been made out. the claimed keystone of the regulation is the creation of multilingual standard forms for most of the public documents concerned: this is no less than the precursor to an eu-wide and eu-controlled system of civil documentation. the rapporteur’s claimed concern to preserve the sovereignty of the member states with regard to family law is thus bogus. finally, as a matter of principle, we vote against eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which backs further simplifying procedures for british citizens to make full use of the single market to travel, conduct business and retire. at the same time, however, with some disappointment that the council was not as progressive as was hoped – my s&d group would have like to have seen an enlargement of the scope and a reduction in administrative burden.
in writing. – i and my colleagues voted today in favour of rejecting the delvaux report on promoting free movement by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents. enforcing a regime under which member states are, effectively, forced to recognise certain civil documents produced as part of the exercise of the right to freedom of movement will lead to an enforced lowering of the guard on checking the veracity of the contents and genuineness of the document itself. this is a criminal and terrorist forger’s charter and is a threat to the security of the uk and our ability properly to check documentation. it affects only 2.4% of the population of the entire eu: the case for the need for this legislation has not been made out. the claimed keystone of the regulation is the creation of multilingual standard forms for most of the public documents concerned: this is no less than the precursor to an eu-wide and eu-controlled system of civil documentation. the rapporteur’s claimed concern to preserve the sovereignty of the member states with regard to family law is thus bogus. finally, as a matter of principle, we vote against eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted today in favour of rejecting the delvaux report on promoting free movement by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents. enforcing a regime under which member states are, effectively, forced to recognise certain civil documents produced as part of the exercise of the right to freedom of movement will lead to an enforced lowering of the guard on checking the veracity of the contents and genuineness of the document itself. this is a criminal and terrorist forger’s charter and is a threat to the security of the uk and our ability properly to check documentation. it affects only 2.4% of the population of the entire eu: the case for the need for this legislation has not been made out. the claimed keystone of the regulation is the creation of multilingual standard forms for most of the public documents concerned: this is no less than the precursor to an eu-wide and eu-controlled system of civil documentation. the rapporteur’s claimed concern to preserve the sovereignty of the member states with regard to family law is thus bogus. finally, as a matter of principle, we vote against eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislation as it promotes the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. in other words, it aims at making the life of citizens easier by reducing the administrative burden to mobility inside the eu. the keystone of the regulation is the creation of multilingual standard forms for most of the public documents concerned. the forms are attached to the original version of the document, and are pre-translated, meaning the document holder is not required to get a certified/notarised copy of the translated document. this will therefore greatly facilitate procedures for european citizens moving between member states.
in writing. ‒ this is part of the re-arrangement of the eu court of justice (ecj) which includes doubling the number of judges in the court. as a matter of principle i oppose the very existence of the ecj and its primacy over the parliament and courts of the united kingdom. previously i have voted against the report of mady delvaux on the transfer to the general court of jurisdiction at first instance in eu civil service cases.
in writing. – ukip voted against the report by mady delvaux on transfer to the general court of jurisdiction at first instance in eu civil service cases. ukip is opposed in principle to the very existence of and primacy of the european court of justice and is opposed in principle to the right of the eu to make and pass legislation. for those reasons we voted against the proposed legislation.
in writing. – ukip voted against the report of mady delvaux on the transfer to the general court of jurisdiction at first instance in eu civil service cases. ukip is opposed in principle to the very existence of and primacy of the european court of justice and is opposed in principle to the right of the eu to make and pass legislation. for those reasons we voted against the proposed legislation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the report of mady delvaux on the transfer to the general court of jurisdiction at first instance in eu civil service cases. ukip is opposed in principle to the very existence of and primacy of the european court of justice and is opposed in principle to the right of the eu to make and pass legislation. for those reasons we voted against the proposed legislation.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the abolition of the civil service tribunal and the transfer of those seven judges to the court of justice as a cost-effective way to ensure justice is delivered faster. this transfer requires no additional funding and means that cases before the court of justice will be dealt with faster and more efficiently, making a big difference to british citizens and firms who need to have their rights enforced fairly and quickly.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the abolition of the civil service tribunal and the transfer of those seven judges to the court of justice as a cost-effective way to ensure justice is delivered faster. this transfer requires no additional funding, and means that cases before the court of justice will be dealt with faster and more efficiently, making a big difference to british citizens and firms who need to have their rights enforced fairly and quickly.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it is a proposal for a regulation. the report sets out a step-by-step roadmap on the topic of ‘how to administer’. if this proposed legislation were adopted the result would be a highly formalised administration structure which would be inflexible, overly-bureaucratic, hidebound by rules. it would lead to a veritably fertile field of play for every lawyer in the eu if some act of administration fails to be conducted exactly according to the rules.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report which advocates a regulation on how to administer the european union. the proposed legislation sets out a strict step-by-step, tick-box procedure as to how to administer any given item of administration that lies within the ambit of the proposed regulation. this will have the effect of creating an extraordinarily over-bureaucratic administration which will spend significant amounts of time checking to ensure the rules have been followed and the boxes ticked. if some step is missed, work will have to be re-done like some game of snakes and ladders. in addition it will create a significantly fertile field of opportunities for lawyers to attack administrative decisions on the basis of failure to follow the strict letter of the regulation. this proposal is a particularly absurd one. for those reasons and because ukip always votes against proposals for legislation (as a matter of principle), ukip voted against this report.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report advocating a regulation on how to administer the european union. the proposed legislation sets out a strict, step-by-step tick-box procedure for addressing any given item of administration within its ambit. this will have the effect of creating an extraordinarily over-bureaucratic administration that will spend significant amounts of time checking to ensure the rules have been followed and the boxes ticked. if a step is missed, work will have to be re-done, like some game of snakes and ladders. in addition, it will create a significantly fertile field of opportunities for lawyers to attack administrative decisions on the basis of failure to follow the strict letter of the regulation. this proposal is a particularly absurd one. for those reasons and because it always votes against proposals for legislation (as a matter of principle), ukip voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report advocating a regulation on how to administer the european union. the proposed legislation sets out a strict, step-by-step tick-box procedure for addressing any given item of administration within its ambit. this will have the effect of creating an extraordinarily over-bureaucratic administration that will spend significant amounts of time checking to ensure the rules have been followed and the boxes ticked. if a step is missed, work will have to be re-done, like some game of snakes and ladders. in addition, it will create a significantly fertile field of opportunities for lawyers to attack administrative decisions on the basis of failure to follow the strict letter of the regulation. this proposal is a particularly absurd one. for those reasons and because it always votes against proposals for legislation (as a matter of principle), ukip voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it looks at how we can foster the culture of an open, efficient and independent european administration. over the years, the complexity of the eu’s administration has increased. new bodies, offices and agencies have been created and the tasks for which the european union is responsible have also grown. this has meant, too, that citizens and businesses increasingly have become directly involved with the union’s administration. this happens, for instance, when they are applying for eu funds, or when they lodge complaints against a decision that is unfavourable to them. the regulation would apply only to the administration of the union’s institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, and not to member states’ administration. it is crucial to reduce the administrative burden and tackle the negative public image that eu institutions have, in order to reduce the democratic gap that has grown between the eu and its citizens.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy i would like to confirm i voted against this resolution. this resolution asks the commission to re-evaluate the market definitions and the current set of eu competition rules to take into account the evolution of the global rail supply chain. in my constituency of the north-east the steel sector is in crisis as a result of european union rules curtailing its ability to compete with china dumping steel on the market.
in writing. – ukip voted against this resolution as it is not for the eu to tell the uk rail industry what it should do. for example, steel is a major source material for railways, and the eu’s inability to prevent cheap steel being dumped into the eu from china has led to the uk steel industry being decimated and thousands of jobs being lost. the eu clearly does not have a grasp of the business requirements needed to ensure competitiveness, and it should not be telling member states what to do.
in writing. ‒ i recognise the importance of the rail supply industry to the uk and i share our government’s goal of making the uk a leader in railways. we share the commitment to increase our manufacturing and innovation capability to enhance productivity, skills and employment to support uk economic growth. there is much in the resolution that mirrors this focus, but we do not believe that the international procurement instrument (ipi) represents the best way to achieve its stated objectives of opening foreign procurement markets to eu bidders. it also carries a significant risk of retaliatory market closures should it ever be used. conservatives voted in favour of the resolution but continue to oppose the ipi. paragraph 42 stresses the relevance and the impact that the negotiations on the ‘international public procurement instrument’ and the revision of the regulations on trade defence instruments are having on the european rail supply industry, and calls on the council and the commission to take this into consideration and to work closely with the european parliament to reach a swift agreement on these instruments; and it asks the commission to take into consideration the impacts which the recognition of market economy status for state-run or other non-market economies could have on the functioning of trade defence instruments and the competitiveness of the european rail supply industry.
in writing. – like my ukip colleagues, i voted against this resolution as it is not for the eu to tell the uk rail industry what it should do. for example, steel is a major source material for railways, and the eu’s inability to prevent cheap steel being dumped into the eu from china has led to the uk steel industry being decimated and thousands of jobs being lost. the eu clearly does not have a grasp of the business requirements needed to ensure competitiveness, and it should not be telling member states what to do.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this resolution as it is not for the eu to tell the uk rail industry what it should do. for example, steel is a major source material for railways, and the eu’s inability to prevent cheap steel being dumped into the eu from china has led to the uk steel industry being decimated and thousands of jobs being lost. the eu clearly does not have a grasp of the business requirements needed to ensure competitiveness, and it should not be telling member states what to do.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it recognises the rail supply industry as a key industry for europe’s competitiveness and capacity for innovation. it urges that measures be taken to ensure that europe maintains a technological and innovative advantage in this sector. the resolution also asks the commission to fully mobilise the various eu funding instruments and to explore and exploit additional sources of financing for shift2rail (s2r) and to seek for synergies between different eu funds and with private investments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it recognises the rail supply industry as a key industry for europe’s competitiveness and capacity for innovation. it urges that measures be taken to ensure that europe maintains a technological and innovative advantage in this sector. the resolution also asks the commission to fully mobilise the various eu funding instruments and to explore and exploit additional sources of financing for shift2rail (s2r) and to seek for synergies between different eu funds and with private investments.
blue-card question. – thank you, madam, for a very good presentation and some very laudable words. your comments on the aspects of this whole debate were very worthwhile to listen to. but this important debate has been scheduled at the very end of this plenary session, here in strasbourg in june 2016, and we have got less than 25 meps here in the chamber to listen to what we have got to say. so would you agree with me that we are right to raise the subject, but that in fact the european council and commission are not really interested in what we meps actually have to say and comment upon?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, as part of the united kingdom brexit deliberations three critical aspects have been highlighted and they are as follows: european union decision making and the lack of democracy; secondly, the influence and clout of meps in european union decision making; and thirdly european union scrutiny of its own processes and procedures. how apt it is that this debate brings into sharp focus all three of those! now we know that this debate stems from a libe question, from the libe committee, and it is essentially a question to the commission on the right to be informed appropriately when the european union is negotiating international arrangements and agreements. the question asks whether the commission will provide, at the very least, indications as to the third country in question, the type of agreement, the stage of the procedure and the relevant documents to parliament – to this chamber! it should be of immediate concern to european union citizens that this is not already the case. let me cite the example of my colleague stuart agnew who happens also to be an agricultural spokesperson. on monday 12 october 2015 he viewed the recently published, restricted, agricultural chapter of the trade ttip document. he had to sign a document stating that he would not disclose what he read, he had to hand over electronic gadgets and cameras, he was only allowed a pen, no paper, he was in a windowless cell and he was issued with special blank paper which could not be photocopied. he was even told that if he disclosed what he had read he would be punished, penalised with a fine and also at the mercy of punishment from mr schulz, the president of this chamber. if that is what defines the european union’s definition of transparency and openness on this critical issue of negotiations on international agreements, then quite frankly not only is that a farce, it is unacceptable. then we have the case of another mep, mr ming flanagan. he also visited the ttip chamber. he also highlighted what was wrong, and he got an email back from mr bernd lange, a fellow mep, who seem to think ‘that these confidential documents can be consulted on the premises of the european parliament has been a great achievement for this institution’ and enabled us meps to better exert our role of parliamentary scrutiny in negotiations. well i do not agree with what mr. lange says, and quite frankly for him to even state that when it is quite patently the opposite is just bizarre. now it is absolutely farcical what we are faced with, but let’s be serious just for a moment. all too often the european union raises the red flag and condemns secrecy, breaches of openness and transparency elsewhere in the world. yet here is the european union saying one thing but adopting the complete opposite in its own backyard, and actually keeping or restricting any information to meps. quite clearly the messages should be from us to the commission to the council: put your own house in order, abide by the transparency that you expect, demand and even dictate from others, but finally restore democracy within this organisation and stop the secrecy and withholding of vital information to which we are entitled, which we are entitled to communicate to our voters, and to which our european union citizens should be entitled.
mr president, i would like to start by congratulating the committee on civil liberties justice and home affairs (libe) and its chair, labour mep, claude moraes, for taking the initiative to raise this important question. but this question goes beyond the concerns of the libe committee, particularly about readmission agreements. as a member of the committee on international trade (inta), i know how crucial access information is. this is a fundamental prerequisite for us to be able to carry out parliamentary scrutiny, which in turn is our main tool to ensure the legitimacy of the eu’s external action and, in particular, its trade policy. ultimately, we need to regain the public’s trust, and this starts with upholding the highest level of transparency, not just towards the general public, but also, crucially, towards us as their representatives in the european parliament. certainly, as a former trade unionist, i can see – and i think the vast majority of the public would understand – that some discretion is needed in any negotiation, and that it would be detrimental to disclose certain documents when it is clear that such a disclosure could seriously weaken the eu’s negotiating position. but most people would also assume that discretion should not prevent proper parliamentary scrutiny and that meps should have access to all confidential information even when the general public does not. sadly, this is not the reality today. the frequent complaints raised by meps – and we have heard them today – and national and regional parliamentarians, that they are being kept in the dark when it comes to negotiations on ttip, tisa or ceta, are not helping to shift the public perception over what is seen as a series of secretive negotiations. this is why we still have a problem with transparency on ttip, even though in reality the ttip negotiations are arguably among the most transparent trade negotiations ever conducted, certainly in the case of my member state and definitely in the case of the eu. stories in the media about how limited the access granted to meps in reading rooms is certainly does not help and i strongly believe that it would be in the interests of everyone to improve the situation. for instance, as the spokesperson on ttip for my national delegation, i do not have access to consolidated documents or other restricted documents, even in the reading room. the group of meps allowed to see these documents, which include our partner countries’ positions, is extremely limited: less than 5% of all meps. this is just one example of how narrowly the treaty provisions aiming at ensuring the transparency of international agreements have been implemented by the commission. this minimalistic approach by the commission stands in stark contrast with european case law, which has always taken a much broader view of what this obligation to inform entails. it is therefore absolutely justified for parliament to ask the commission how it intends to fully comply with the treaty and guarantee a regular and comprehensive flow of information on international agreements in all areas. this is not to say that the commission is the only culprit, and i think it is worth mentioning that we have many problems with the council, and many problems in terms of transparency around the council. parliament could also do things better. for instance, meps are not allowed to take notes when consulting confidential documents in the reading room as a result of a decision in this house by parliament’s bureau. i very much hope that the commission will seize this initiative as an opportunity to push its transparency agenda further. transparency is at the heart of commissioner malmström’s ambition for eu trade policy in the 21st century, but it is now time to turn those words into concrete action so that we are able to fully fulfil our role, in terms of parliamentary scrutiny, towards the general public and our constituents. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – instead of having to have 27 countries agreeing to everything, to have such ttip or any of these other treaties, would it not be better if just went ahead and did it ourselves? we could have trade treaties which are more akin to what the british people require and which our economy requires. we would be much better off having brexit and be able to do these things ourselves. surely, madam, you must agree with me?
jude kirton-darling (s&d), blue-card answer. well mr coburn, i am sure that it will come as absolutely no surprise to you that i do not agree with you. i am campaigning very strongly for britain to remain inside the eu; and that is primarily because we are stronger negotiating with our partners; we are stronger as one of 28 countries going and negotiating with billion-person countries, trillion-dollar economies around the world. the uk negotiating a deal with china or the us would be effectively accepting the terms of their deal and not pushing our interests. within the eu, we are able to get a deal which is in the interests of british people and the whole of the european continent.
mr president, openness and transparency by governing organisations is critical to voter trust and expectation. there is little or no openness and transparency here in the eu. with regard to international agreements, in the uk ttip is now a major issue which worries all british citizens, as it will harm our national health service, and the national health service in great britain is the nearest thing to shinto – it is practically a religion, it is inviolable. to see this treaty, members this of this honourable house have to go to a windowless dungeon and sign a document that we will not disclose what we have read, and hand over all our electronic equipment, we are not given a pen or paper. this is the eu’s definition of transparency. this affects our nhs, our agriculture and many other matters. the british members of this parliament including myself have to sit on their hands while an unelected foreign commissioner – or commissar – takes decisions for us. the uk will be much better off creating its own treaties with the rest of the world, rather than having to allow 27 other nations to put their tuppence-worth in as well. it would be much better if we did it ourselves after brexit. this parliament thinks consulting documents in a dungeon is a great achievement for the eu. well i’m sorry, this place looks more and more like the old supreme soviet – and it makes it look positively libertarian in comparison.
madam president, i personally did not know jo cox, but i want to say how grateful i am that the president today took the opportunity to pass sympathy. as i come from northern ireland, i went through 40 years of this type of terrorism, and i know that today we have a husband left without a wife, and two children without a mother. i do not think any words can actually say how terrible that is to the family. i feel that every time we meet in this parliament to debate this topic, atrocities have happened in the intervening period. they have all been referred to, be it in orlando, be it in this city, be it in paris or wherever. and quite clearly the terrorists involved and the terrorist attacks in those cities by the so-called islamic state are not simply a foreign policy problem, it is often a home-grown problem, often involving troubled young individuals radicalised in the countries they mercilessly attack. we need to strengthen the preventive strategies in our prisons, as well as engage in civil society, religious leaders and local communities. radicalisation towards any terrorist group or violent activity regardless of religion or ideology is unacceptable.
mr president, conservative meps support increasing the amount of energy coming from renewable sources. we want to do this in a way that does not unduly burden consumers and businesses and export jobs outside of europe. contrary to the commission’s 2015 renewable energy progress report, i am happy to note that the uk is ahead of our mid-term target and that we remain on track to reach our goal of 30% of electricity from renewable sources by 2020. we recognise the importance of energy efficiency both for reducing dependence on imports as well as for overall consumption. we do not support the rapporteur’s desire to see an increased role for the commission in monitoring member states’ action via enhanced oversight. we do not support binding efficiency and renewable targets. these skew investment decisions and are not the best way for member states to spend taxpayer money effectively. these reports seek to enhance the role of the commission and the eu, and for those reasons we shall vote against both of them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which concerned appointments to a special committee of inquiry into the panama papers. my colleague matt carthy has been nominated to represent the gue/ngl european political grouping on this committee. this committee of inquiry will investigate possible contraventions and maladministration in the application of the law on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. a number of irish companies, business people, property developers and other individuals have been implicated in this scandal. it is vital that this committee has sufficient powers of inquiry to investigate the panama papers scandal effectively in order to identify the loopholes that need to be closed. the committee will have 12 months to report back.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote which was on a framework agreement between the eu and lebanon through the euro-mediterranean partnership (euromed). this agreement promotes economic integration and democratic reform across 16 countries to the eu’s south. it seeks greater integration within the region and is linked to the european neighbourhood policy which is aimed at offering its neighbours a privileged relationship. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. as this agreement is foreseen to lead to future trade agreements, i was against it in principle. however, as the lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ similar to the previous framework vote, this vote concerned greater economic integration between the eu and lebanon in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. the european neighbourhood policy is aimed at offering its neighbours a privileged relationship. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. this vote was on a legal text to add the names of those countries that joined the eu in the 2004 enlargement to the official documents. as this agreement is foreseen to lead to future trade agreements, i was against it in principle. however, as the lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ this particular vote was on a legal text to add the names of bulgaria and romania, who joined the eu in 2009, to the official documents. i had concerns with this report as one of its aims is to increase economic integration between the eu and lebanon in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. however, as lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which has the overall aim of reducing tax avoidance and evasion. sinn féin have been very active in europe on the issue of tax avoidance and closing the loopholes which permit multinationals to engage in widespread tax avoidance and evasion. from playing an active role on taxe and now on the panama papers, sinn féin will continue to ensure that multinationals are obliged to pay the taxes which they owe. this particular report approves the agreement that has been negotiated by the eu and monaco on the automatic exchange of financial account information between eu member states and monaco relating to accounts of each other’s residents. automatic exchange of information will take place from 2018 on information collected since the start of next year. under the agreement, monaco will apply measures equivalent to the eu’s on reporting the taxation of savings income, and come into line with the oecd’s 2014 standards. (there was a previous agreement on this in 2004 which monaco is updating to current standards adopted in the eu in december 2014).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with an application to the european globalisation adjustment fund. sinn féin have called for reform of this european fund which is designed to support workers who lose their jobs as a consequence of globalisation. however, my sinn féin colleague eoin ó broin requested documents to be released under the freedom of information act which showed that millions of euro in such supports, provided through the european globalisation adjustment fund, had already been returned to the european commission. sinn féin has called on the minister for education jan o’sullivan and minister of state for skills damien english to ensure €4.15 million in funding for 424 redundant lufthansa technik workers in rathcoole, dublin, to be spent by next september’s deadline as, as it stands, it appears that 63% of this fund will remain unspent.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which was concerned with technical measures concerning caging operations in the mediterranean. the report which was a multi annual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean put in place by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) in 2006 to address the alarming depletion in stock levels. however, it should be noted that the provisions contained within the recovery plan do not apply to ireland
in writing. ‒ as these regulations will not affect national family law in the participating member states, but simply set out opaque rules to determine what jurisdiction is applicable and ensure enforcement of decisions in the case of international matrimonial disputes, i voted in favour. i am disappointed that the irish government has chosen to opt out given the added value this could have for citizens and the saving of legal costs
in writing. ‒ this file is the same as the previous file. it follows on from another file voted on at the last plenary on property regimes of international couples. the resolution asks the council to notify parliament if negotiations depart from the framework which has been presented. similar to the previous files, as these regulations will not affect national family law in the participating member states, but simply set out opaque rules to determine what jurisdiction is applicable and ensure enforcement of decisions in the case of international matrimonial disputes, i voted in favour. i am disappointed that the irish government has chosen to opt out given the added value this could have for citizens and the saving of legal costs.
in writing. ‒ the initiative put forward by the european parliament calling for peace in the congo region was progressive, however, the joint motion for a resolution was not critical enough on the interference of certain countries and companies in destabilising the country. my group, gue/ngl tabled an alternative resolution which was much more critical and got to the root of the issues. however, as the majority of meps voted in favour of the joint resolution, i did not have an opportunity to endorse this alternative one and therefore, i was left with no choice but to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with european cooperation in education and training. while there were some progressive provisions, particularly those which addressed the need to include refugees and migrants in the education system, the report contained instructions on harmonising national education and training systems, and that runs contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. sinn féin is committed to ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is respected and strengthened at national level. in everyday language, subsidiarity means that decisions should be made at the lowest level possible, i.e. at the level of power that should take action. erosion or breaches of the principle of subsidiarity can lead to unintended consequences – undermining, for example, citizens’ faith in the european union – and should, therefore, be avoided. whilst the report contained some progressive elements, these failed to mitigate the erosion of the principle of subsidiarity, and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report was a positive and progressive one, which highlighted the need for a modal shift and for higher energy efficiency of renewables in order to improve the sustainability of transport. furthermore, it criticises the promotion of biofuels for transport, which competes with the food production sector. the report also analyses how member states have done in achieving their renewable energy targets. there is currently an eu target of 20%, which is shared by member states and broken down into national targets. ireland has fallen short of the heat energy target. while this is not acceptable, the report correctly expresses concern that some member states may have to revise policies and instruments in order to achieve their targets. for these reasons outlined above, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was an implementation report by markus pieper on the energy efficiency directive. the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu) establishes a framework of measures for the promotion of energy efficiency in the eu and sets a non-binding target of 20% energy efficiency improvements by 2020. the eu as a whole is expected to fall short of this non-binding target, although the commission and the rapporteur are optimistic and claim we can still reach the target. this report further calls for full implementation of existing legislation, accelerated efforts and the removal of barriers to investment. in the committee phase, my political group, gue/ngl, tabled alternative compromise amendments with other progressive groups calling for a binding 40% target on energy efficiency for 2030. this is positive, as it displays political will and commitment to the paris climate change agreement.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the british people have spoken, and they have voted to leave the european union. whatever our personal views we should now all respect the democratic will of the british people and work together and move on. i know there was surprise, shock, and lots of emotion on both sides of the channel, and there will be many attempts to replay both the referendum campaign and history. only in the last few days i have heard people say, what if british politicians had been more honest with the british people about the political dimension of the eu and the dream of a united states of europe? what if the eu had offered more in negotiations with the british people? but that is now all in the past. now, politicians in the uk and the eu both need to look to the future, and on both sides of the channel we need to pause and start thinking about our negotiating strategies. let us think carefully in the short term about the best relationship for us both in the long term. as the presidency said, cool heads must prevail. across europe there is disagreement amongst leaders about what the eu should be seeking in its future relationships with the uk. some are saying, ‘let’s go slowly’; others are saying ‘let’s punish britain’; and others are saying ‘we have a plan – we have an association agreement ready’. just as in the eu there are differences, there are differences in the uk: when to trigger article 50, whether to look for an eu-uk trade deal, whether to look for an eea deal, or some other scenario. the eu needs to be clear and the uk needs to prepare its own plan. in the meantime, the treaties are clear and they must be respected. so both the uk and the eu negotiators need to give the markets certainty over the timetable for negotiations: prepare your negotiating positions ready for when article 50 is triggered, and look for a deal that is, as much as possible, mutually beneficial to both the eu and the uk. it is not the speed at which negotiations are completed, but the deal that we get at the end which is more important. (objections from certain quarters) let me also say on a personal note that for centuries britain has welcomed people from all over the world. when many european countries were mired in dictatorship and fascism, we were an open country. today, i hope all british politicians can unite in stating that britain will remain an open, tolerant and global nation. (applause from certain quarters)regardless of how we now proceed, britain and the eu will continue to be close partners for years to come. so now is not the time to replay the past. now is the time to look to the future, to ensure that as we roll up our sleeves and begin negotiations, we in britain become good neighbours and are no longer reluctant tenants. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – good morning. (loud protests and heckling from various quarters) thank you for that very warm welcome. funny, isn’t it, how things have changed ...
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, isn’t it funny? when i came here 17 years ago and said that i wanted to lead a campaign to get britain to leave the european union, you all laughed at me. well i have to say, you’re not laughing now, are you? and the reason you are so upset, the reason you are so angry, has been perfectly clear from all the angry exchanges this morning: you, as a political project, are in denial. you are in denial that your currency is failing. you are in denial ... (murmurs of protest)well, just look at the mediterranean. no, no, as a policy to impose poverty on greece and the rest of the mediterranean you have done very well, and you are in denial over ms merkel’s call last year for as many people as possible to cross the mediterranean into the european union, which has led to massive divisions between countries and within countries. but the biggest problem you have got, and the main reason the united kingdom voted the way that it did, is that you have, by stealth, by deception, without ever telling the truth to the british or the rest of the peoples of europe, imposed upon them a political union. you have imposed upon them a political union, and when the people in 2005 in the netherlands and france voted against that political union, when they rejected the constitution, you simply ignored them and brought the lisbon treaty in through the back door. (applause from certain quarters)what happened last thursday was a remarkable result. it was indeed a seismic result, not just for british politics, for european politics, but perhaps even for global politics, too, because what the little people did, what the ordinary people did, the people who have been oppressed over the last few years and seen their living standards go down, they rejected the multinationals. they rejected the merchant banks, they rejected big politics, and they said, actually, we want our country back. we want our fishing waters back, we want our borders back, we want to be an independent, self-governing normal nation, and that is what we have done and that is what must happen. and in doing so, we now offer a beacon of hope to democrats across the rest of the european continent. i will make one prediction this morning: the united kingdom will not be the last member state to leave the european union. so the question is: what we do next? now it is up to the british government to invoke article 50 and i have to say that i do not think we should spend too long in doing it. i totally agree, mr juncker, that the british people have voted. we need to make sure that it happens. but what i would like to see is a grown-up and sensible attitude to how we negotiate a different relationship. (cries of disapproval)now i know that virtually none of you have ever done a proper job in your lives ...(protests and catcalls)... or worked in business, or worked in trade, or indeed ever created a job. but listen. just listen ...
on behalf of the efdd group. – you are quite right, mr schulz, ukip used to protest against the establishment, and now the establishment protests against ukip, so something has happened here. let us listen to some simple pragmatic economics. we, between us, between your countries and my country, do an enormous amount of business in goods and services. that trade is mutually beneficial to both of us. that trade matters. if you were to decide to cut off your noses to spite your faces and to reject any idea of a sensible trade deal, the consequences would be far worse for you than it would be for us. (murmurs of disapproval) even no deal is better for the united kingdom than the current rotten deal that we have got. but if we were to move to a position where tariffs were reintroduced on products like motor cars, then hundreds of thousands of german workers would risk losing their jobs. so why don’t we just be pragmatic, sensible, grown-up, realistic and let’s cut between us a sensible tariff-free deal, and thereafter recognise that the united kingdom will be your friend, that we will trade with you, we will cooperate with you, we will be your best friends in the world, but do it sensibly and allow us to go off and pursue our global ambitions and future. (applause and loud catcalls)
mr president, the people of the united kingdom have given their verdict and their decision cannot be rewritten. they have recognised that the eu’s problems are not just imperfections and they have said ‘let us chart our own course’. this referendum represents a victory for democracy. the outcome was not one that our outgoing prime minister had hoped for. yet he should be praised for giving the british people their say. for years the people of the united kingdom have been trying to tell you of their frustrations and concerns about the european union. you turned a deaf ear, but today you are listening. now, though, is a time for cool heads. these institutions, despite what i have heard today, must resist the urge for the knee-jerk reaction. our nation has not turned its back on europe. we are not inward-thinking. we have for a long time sought a new relationship with our european allies, a positive relationship based on self-governance, free trade and cooperation, one which makes our world more secure and more prosperous. that does not make us any less european and it does not make us any less optimistic. the united kingdom not only has the strength of character to succeed for ourselves, but also the inherent humanity to defend the freedoms of our neighbours. let us look forward to a new era, one in which the european union and the united kingdom can work closely and calmly for the benefit of all our people. (applause)
president of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i have learned in this debate something i knew before: we must not leave our nations in the hands of nationalists. (applause) we must respect the nations, not the nationalists, who are not patriots, but anti-european and unpatriotic. i would like us to draw the right lessons from what made the news last week. don't mix it all up we must not give the impression that europe is the europe of austerity. all governments, including those that have historically been involved in environmental issues, have followed the same policy. i do not accept mr lamberts' speech. it is not correct to describe the commission as an austerity commission, one of excessive rigor. i've known the greens and the environmentalists in government. when you're in opposition, you're very strong. when you're in government, you do what everybody else does. don't give lessons to others. (applause) i would like to thank the united kingdom did not vote on austerity policies or insufficient border protection. the united kingdom is not a member state of the euro, so the policies of the euro do not apply to the united kingdom. the uk is not part of the schengen area, so the uk is in control of its borders. so don't tell us any stories about that. stop telling us stories, mr farage. you're not going to get away with this. you said a few days ago that you were wrong about the budgetary aspects of the british-european issue. if you had said that before the vote, i could have congratulated you, but you lied. you didn't tell the truth; you restored the truth. (applause) i enjoyed debating with you, mr farage. we have the same sense of humor. you have a sense of humor, i have a sense of humor. i am very sorry that this is the last time we can debate this, since you are not coming back.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me repeat that we have no choice but to respect the outcome of this referendum, a referendum that should serve as a wake—up call to all of us. at this point in time, the answer is not necessarily more or less europe. it is about a better europe. it is about a convincing europe. the union of 27 will continue if the uk decides to leave, but it is clear that we will have to act. our union can only exist if it is supported by the millions and millions of citizens it is supposed to serve and to protect. that support cannot be taken for granted, so we need to work day and night to earn it. as i have just said, the outcome of the uk referendum does not mean that the threats and challenges we commonly face have suddenly disappeared. neither does it mean that each nation will be better off acting on its own, rather than as part of a collective. on the contrary. in fact geopolitical developments underscore the need for unity. no country on the face of the earth can meet all the threats and challenges alone. to this end, council and parliament will have to work constructively in tackling the big issues that european citizens require the eu to act upon. as the new reality of a 27-member-state eu looms, this should not divert us from concentrating on what the eu can do to meet today’s main challenges such as ensuring the security of our citizens, dealing with migration and refugee flows and boosting the european economy by creating jobs for european citizens. so let us make sure that we maintain our friendship. in a world that is rapidly becoming rougher and more complex, we cannot afford to be driven apart. we share global interests. so let us rediscover the simple notion that in this world our interests are converging rather than diverging. if anyone is fatigued by continued cooperation, let this be your wake—up call. as always, the council stands ready to work with parliament.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to the tone of this debate and i do accept that emotions are running high this morning. but at times it has reinforced all the stereotypes that the british people fear about europe and which they voted against on 23 june. threats, bullying and hectoring will not work with the british people. what we need to do now is accept the result of the referendum and build a relationship that is mutually beneficial to all our people, a relationship which respects our decisions, but which helps us build prosperous economies, protect fundamental rights and secure peace in a world that is becoming increasingly dangerous.
president of the commission. the commission is not i would like to apologize to the house for leaving the debate. mr timmermans will be happy to stay here. at least he says he wants to stay here. i have a meeting with the british prime minister. as i am respecting british democracy, i have to go.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the london stock market is rallying strongly this morning. it is now 12% up since its february lows. sterling is weak, but then it started declining from july 2014, and the prime ministers of australia and new zealand are now vying for who can be the first country from outside the eu to do a trade deal with the united kingdom. things are looking pretty good. the only upheaval is political upheaval, where we have seen a prime minister resign and indeed the british commissioner, lord hill resign. i think they have both done so for the right reasons. you never know, we may be getting rid of a labour party leader as well. but upheavals in politics can actually be a very healthy and a very good thing. i got into politics because our political class in britain led us towards a european political project. so, if that result last week sweeps a few of them away, so be it. but i am looking forward next year to celebrating our independence day on 23 june. (applause from certain quarters)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i represent scotland within this house, and whilst i am proudly scottish, i am also proudly european. (applause)i want my country to be internationalist, cooperative, ecological, fair, european. and the people of scotland, along with the people of northern ireland and the people of london, and lots and lots of people in wales and england also, voted to remain within our family of nations. i demand that that status and that esprit européen be respected. colleagues, there is a lot of things to be negotiated, we will need cool heads and warm hearts, but please remember this: scotland did not let you down. please, i beg you, chers collègues: do not let scotland down now. (loud and sustained applause)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, meps like diane dodds and marine le pen would say that we in the north of ireland are bound by a uk vote. we say we are not and, like the previous mep, mr smith, we asked you to respect our vote. we stand by the vote of the people of the north of ireland just like scotland, which voted remain. (applause)we accept, we respect and we will defend the wishes of the people of the north of ireland. however, if english votes drag us out of the eu, that would be like: ‘britannia waives the rules’. there was a democratic vote. we voted to remain. i tell you that the last thing that the people of ireland need is an eu border with 27 member states stuck right in the middle of it. (applause)you and the eu have supported our peace process and i ask you to continue to do that. sinn féin worked for a strong remain vote on the basis of another europe – a more social europe, a more democratic europe – and clearly i say to the commission and to the council that you are not listening. you fail to realise the depth of opposition among the ordinary people to their anti-democratic practices and anti-social policies. these social policies and practices must change if the eu is to survive. you have to listen to that, but i ask you to please respect the vote of the people in the north of ireland. they voted remain. (applause)
in writing. – the referendum clearly underlined that the uk is made up of different countries. the result in scotland, with all local authority areas voting to remain, could not have been more of a contrast with england and wales. we voted to remain, as an outward looking, open and inclusive country, voted to protect our place in the world’s largest single market and our freedom to travel, live, work, study and retire in other eu member states. yet now we face being taken out of the eu against our will. first minister nicola sturgeon shows exemplary leadership, declaring her determination to explore every possible avenue to ensure that scotland can continue to benefit from the single market, and the many other gains that voters in scotland want to retain with our eu membership. as the first minister has pledged, the snp government will accelerate talks with the eu institutions about scotland’s place in the eu. the resolution which we will vote upon shortly was drafted in haste, and is unsatisfactory as a result. this parliament ought to consider more carefully our response to the democratic result of the referendum, with particular attention to the remain majority in scotland. as democrats, we must help find a way to deliver what scotland’s voters want.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the first resolution, on the grounds that i preferred the text of other resolutions which would have been considered had the first resolution failed. however, i am in agreement with the principle that the process of the uk’s withdrawal from the european union should begin as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ as a prominent brexiteer in wales for ukip wales as well as vote leave, i am honoured and proud that the people of wales voted against the collective might of the establishment, for wales to leave the eu. it is now the duty of the british government, and the welsh government to set aside their differences, and to now work to fulfil the will of the people of wales and britain. i believe that article 50 should be invoked within weeks, and that the british government should now start trade deals with nations like australia, iceland and new zealand who have asked to be at the front of the queue. this is a new dawn. this is an opportunity for our nation to regain our democracy fully, regain full control of our borders and decide to work with the entire world, and not just one continent. i fear that the eu and the establishment will work together to stop us from leaving. we must remain vigilant and act as the canaries in the mineshaft for the british people. ultimately, trust the british people, they always get it right in the end!
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, brando benifei, for his work as rapporteur, and silvia costa for coordinating the opinion of the committee on culture and education. education is the key to both economic and social inclusion of refugees and asylum seekers, in particular young people, and that is why the committee on culture has put forward the notion of education corridors, and why it calls for further supporting the cooperation between eu universities and universities in places of conflict to ensure that children and young people who have to flee their country can pursue their education, which is a human right. it is not only important for welcoming countries, who will benefit from the economic contribution of educated newcomers, but it is also a moral and human duty for european societies to guarantee that these young people have the opportunity of a brighter future. i also want to highlight the role of informal learning, including lifelong learning, sport, volunteering, culture and the arts, which – by providing spaces for intercultural dialogue and exchange – not only facilitate the social inclusion of refugees into their new communities, but also address stereotypes, prejudices and discrimination by the majority. too often, the dominant narrative says that somebody else is always to blame for the world’s problems. this results in a culture of fear. but when people come together and talk honestly and share in each other’s culture they learn that we are all human beings with common aspirations and concerns.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for the very good work he has done on this report, involving all of us. the common european asylum system is absolutely clear on issues around access to the labour market and the rights that go with it. it was a key point when we were renegotiating the qualifications directive two or three years ago, and of course the possibilities in that regard in the receptions directive. we have a wealth of experience in member states dating from the equal programme and, indeed, beyond that. and for those who talked about integration being a two-way process: that is true. one of the conclusions from the equal programme was that integration starts on the day of arrival for asylum seekers, and the day before arrival for receiving countries. it is important, as others have said, for local and regional government and other institutions to have additional resources – additional, not replacing existing training for host communities, but in order to take account of the special needs of those arriving. that investment in people is crucial, and it certainly repays in many ways. language acquisition and access to education are crucial and we know this can be a real challenge for teenagers and adults who may have had disrupted, or no, access to education. however, we should not undo the good work in terms of training opportunities by issuing perpetual short-term residence permits, which are a problem both for the individual and for employers. we need to take that into account when looking at the asylum system.
blue-card question. – do you realise that some of these ‘others’ that you refer to actually include members of this house? a fellow mep of mine from the northwest of england who has had an esteemed position as the lord mayor of manchester, a policeman, is a muslim, and sits in this house. and the offence that you make when you ‘other’ people is absolutely despicable, so how can you exonerate yourself from being so islamophobic?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my group welcomes this report on energy labelling. the current system confuses consumers and i am pleased that the a+, a++ and a+++ categories are being scrapped and we are reverting back to the a to g scale. we are also pleased to see a five-year timescale to achieve this transition. this is a reasonable period for both producers and consumers. we do have some reservations about the creation of a product database. we are, though, satisfied that the proposed tax clarifies the requirements on producers which were lacking in the commission proposal. this database has the potential to be a useful market surveillance tool, but we do not want it to become too great a burden on industry. we are also satisfied that this report requires the commission to consider a ten-year timescale when deciding on future energy labels. rescaling labels will impose a cost on industry and it is right that both producers and consumers are provided with certainty over this time period. overall, we believe this legislation will benefit consumers without increasing costs. we believe the existing directive is working well and would caution against some of the amendments made by other groups that would add much unnecessary prescription without benefiting consumers. this would threaten smaller companies and stifle innovation. overall this is a good report and my group will vote in favour on wednesday. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer. – yes, mr president, i do think these labels will benefit consumers because at the moment we have certain product types where everything is either an a+++, a++ or a+ so the least efficient products have an a+ and consumers think they are buying a good product when it is actually the least effective. and i do accept that any legislation does impose a burden on producers and industry and that results in higher prices to consumers, but my judgment is this proposal gets the balance right.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the s&d group welcomed the commission’s communication, trade for all, and in particular its shift towards a value-based trade. but frankly, words on paper are easy and now we need to see the commission deliver on its promises, and we are not convinced that the current trade negotiations are truly reflecting these new values. we agree that under certain conditions trade can bring sustainable growth and jobs – for instance, we have just had the fifth anniversary of the eu-korea free trade agreement, where eu exports to korea have increased by 55% helping to turn a trade deficit into a trade surplus. this is a significant achievement and our companies and workers have benefited from that. however, as a previous speaker has just said, we cannot ignore that trade does not benefit all. it is therefore essential we make sure the benefits of trade reach the widest range of people. this is why open trade has to be accompanied by adequate flanking policies, including access to a reformed globalisation adjustment fund. the losers from trade liberalisation cannot and should not be left alone. my group has always pushed for ftas to be used as levers to promote eu values, and as such we welcome the reference to sustainable development, human rights, fair and ethical trade and the fight against corruption and tax evasion. and in this respect we reiterate in the report that the trade and sustainable development chapters in our ftas should be enforceable in order to make sure our trading partners effectively implement those rules. and we agree with the commissioner that the proliferation of ftas should not lead to the death of the multilateral trading system. for us, the wto is still the priority as it guarantees the poorest countries can take full advantage of trade liberalisation and make full use of its participation in international trade by consistent trade rules across the global community.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur as well for her support for this trade strategy and the free trade agreements that it champions within. this trade report represents a strong mandate for opening up and developing global trading relations. it provides a solid steer for pursuing trade that delivers for consumers across europe. while i would have hoped for a more positive tone with fewer reservations and red lines laid down, on the whole it is a step in the right direction and i am pleased to see a recognition of the role that competition plays in benefiting consumers, the importance of chasing offensive interests such as public procurement access and investment, and, importantly, a greater appreciation of the region of latin america and helping our smes reap the benefits of this region. areas of concern still remain within this trade strategy: protectionist measures in the form of a retaliatory public procurement instrument and continual insistence on gi protection for non-agricultural products. i believe that both these measures display a protectionist agenda and that this will provoke a defensive response. this will be to the detriment of opening up new markets and our eu offensive interests in negotiations. the eu needs a positive, ambitious and liberal trade agenda to ensure that trade deals are not only continually opened and negotiated, but are also delivered and ratified. only in this way can the eu show that it is serious about jobs and growth.
mr president, the uk referendum showed that many people are increasingly uneasy with globalisation, feeling that its benefits are unevenly shared. the eu often gets the blame for this, but i think it is part of the solution. our report sets out tools to ensure that we can trade more fairly, reducing human and environmental exploitation here and abroad, creating virtuous trade relations, progress at home and enabling our trading partners to reach equal or better levels of human development as ours. this report offers concrete proposals to make sustainable development operational, and i will highlight just five of them. the first is making trade union and civil society engagement more formal, giving greater responsibility to non-state actors, such as the ability to lodge labour rights complaints directly with the commission. the second, shifting from voluntary corporate social responsibility to effective and enforceable supply chain due diligence requirements, allowing us to build on the recent political agreement on eu legislation on conflict minerals. the third, properly recognising independent expertise by taking impact assessments seriously and undertaking them in a timely manner able to influence negotiations. fourth, using incentives but equally having adequate deterrents, notably through clear criteria to grant and withdraw gsp+ privileges, which requires, in our view, a new delegated act specifically on this point. and fifthly, involving fully the ilo in all trade talks and negotiations as we did with some success in the aftermath of the terrible rana plaza disaster in bangladesh. sustainable development must be enforceable. it must be visible and it cannot just be aspirational. the public will remain distrustful of trade policy until fairness is ingrained and delivered, and that should now be your priority.
mr president, madam commissioner, i believe you already have a document that will help you here. it is a 20-page document called the alternative trade mandate and it says trade should be about exchange with ecologically and culturally distinct regions, equitably sharing their product skills and creativity. this document was produced in 2014 and was welcomed by this parliament before i was elected. it was put together through consultation with more than 50 civil society organisations, including trade unions, and i believe you need to return to that document. many of us endorsed it during our election campaigns and many more have come to use its messages and continue to work with the organisations that supported it, so i urge you to return to the document and try and uphold those principles.
mr president, article 50 is a trap designed to delay and prevent a country leaving the european union, not to facilitate it. using it could mean that britain never leaves the eu or ends up in a place which is almost as bad, such as the swiss or norwegian models. a much simpler and quicker method, that of exit, is to do the following: immediately repeal the european communities act 1972. this would return supremacy of law-making to our parliament and allow us to immediately enact new legislation to control immigration and borders. all other existing eu directives have been transposed into acts of parliament and would remain in place. chaos would not ensue. those acts could then be repealed over a period of time until we are left with the minimum required in order to interact with the european union. this method puts britain in control of the process, rather than the european union.
mr president, i would like to start by thanking all of those who campaigned and voted for the uk to remain in the european union. we are the 48 percent who value our european friends and neighbours, who value our solidarity with those we share a continent with and, above all, value the most successful peace process the world has ever known, particularly as we commemorate the 100th anniversary of the battle of the somme. eleven days after the vote, it appears that the leave campaign had no plan. currently, leading leave protagonists are resigning, taking no responsibility for the mess that they have created. you could not make this up. we should never forget those who got us into this disaster. meanwhile, the urgent need to reassure those who are eu citizens in the uk, by the uk government and by other eu institutions, that they have a guaranteed legal status is absolutely vital. we must do all that we can to seek clarity at this difficult time.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, on 24 june, the morning after the night before, many europeans woke up feeling pretty dreadful, and i was one of them. clearly, brexit has created a shock wave, and we do not yet know exactly what the consequences will be. we are in uncharted territory. and we must be honest: even if we find the perfect way to handle this ‘divorce’, our problems won’t simply melt away. it is not only british voters who have doubts about european cooperation. in other member states too – including the netherlands – there is widespread criticism and euroscepticism. and we need to address it. as a representative of the outgoing presidency of the council of the european union, i feel conflicted standing here today. i am proud of the concrete results we have achieved in the past six months. but of course i am disappointed by our british friends’ decision to leave the eu. it is a decision that creates a big problem both for the citizens of the uk and also for the other member states. it is a decision that shapes a new reality, and we should proceed with all due caution, to minimise the damage to the member states and the british people themselves. it is in everyone’s interests to know as soon as possible – as soon as is responsible – how we will move forward, and this will demand our full attention in the coming period. the decision poses a whole range of broader concerns, too. because this is not simply about a split that many people did not want. it is also about how brexit affects the partnership between the other 27 member states. the purpose of the european union is to tackle issues and seize opportunities that transcend national borders. issues and opportunities that are too big to tackle alone. the member states all have their own interests, but to a large extent these overlap. these shared interests form the eu’s field of activity, and they provide a basis for public support and legitimacy. the eu can make a big difference. that is not a new insight, but it has been reaffirmed for me in the past six months. because i have seen for myself how cooperation produces results that individual member states could never achieve by themselves. the most obvious example is, of course, the eu’s agreement with turkey on managing the flow of refugees from syria. a lot has been said and written about it in the past few months. and in all honesty, is the agreement ideal in every respect? no. but was it sorely needed? absolutely. and it was a deal we could only reach jointly. because only by acting in concert could we break the criminal business model of the people smugglers. and greatly reduce the number of migrants drowning in the aegean sea. last january alone the death toll was close to 90 and since 20 march fewer than 10 people have drowned – though that is still, of course, 10 too many. only by acting in concert could we bolster the eu’s border-control capability. and only by acting in concert can we put into practice the measures we have agreed on setting up hot spots, improving registration, redistributing refugees among member states and improving the situation in the region. you know as well as i do that implementing all this will be a big challenge. progress is certainly being made, though. between march and june almost 100 000 classroom places were created for refugee children in turkey. another example, of course, is the fight against terrorism – a threat that by definition transcends borders and demands an international response. we will never, never forget the attacks of 22 march, which hit brussels, and with it the heart of europe. last week we were shocked once again by another dreadful attack, this time on istanbul’s airport, and a few days ago, baghad. in recent months the eu has taken some important decisions. on improving the exchange of information between intelligence services, for example. and on sharing passenger information without compromising privacy. it shows that both our vigilance and our willingness to join forces in this area are increasing. which is great, because they are absolutely crucial. so the eu is more than simply the sum of its parts, and of course the best illustration of that is the single market. during the dutch eu presidency we worked on the principle that our most urgent problems – like the refugee crisis – should not overshadow our most important ambitions. so we made sure that enhancing the single market remained a priority. last week, the european council agreed that all the measures the commission has planned for the single market must be adopted by the end of 2018 at the latest. and every year in june we will take stock of progress, in all openness. i am pleased with this new form of self-imposed commitment, which compels us into action. you have an important role in this, as members of the european parliament. not least as legislators, of course, but also as a champion of the single market. after all, your report on ‘the cost of non-europe’ has played a big part in the discussion in recent months. completing the single market could add an extra eur 1.25 trillion to the eu economy, which would mean millions of new jobs, and this argument has proved a convincing one. besides a deeper market we also need a fairer internal market where the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place applies. so migration, terrorism, the single market and brexit: these issues have grabbed the european headlines in recent months. but a lot of work has gone on in other areas too, both behind the scenes and out in the spotlight. take the agreement on a common approach to combating tax avoidance by multinationals. take the progress we have seen on the fourth railway package, national emission ceilings and the eu action plan for the circular economy. i should add that there are also areas in which progress has not been as impressive. take the trade defence instruments and the posting of workers directive. more could have been done there. although this short summary is perhaps a good illustration of the way european decision-making works: moving forward in small steps, with now and then a step back or sideways. the eu is still a work in progress, and in principle that is absolutely fine. but as i have said: brexit is a signal – and certainly not the only signal – that change is needed. indeed, it cannot be avoided. and i am certainly not the first person to say so. i firmly believe that the worst possible response to brexit would be for ‘brussels’ and the european capitals to continue with business as usual. this would show complete disregard for the reality in the member states. i also believe it would be wrong to rush blindly forward towards more political integration and a more ‘federal’ europe. because that too would be a denial of the sentiment felt by many european people, to whom the eu is – or has become – something remote and aloof. when it comes to the issue of ‘more’ or ‘less’ europe, i believe that the only sensible debate is the one about less bureaucracy, red tape and regulation, and more concrete, visible results in terms of prosperity, decent work and security. and having held the presidency for the past six months, i am well aware that we cannot just silence the critics with a magic wand. building public support takes time and effort. you may remember me saying in january that the netherlands wanted a pragmatic presidency. we wanted to serve the interests of the member states, whose positions should be reflected in all joint decisions. we wanted to move the agenda forward. and we wanted to address the urgent challenges of migration and terrorism. i hope that this approach has been a visible one, and i hope it has contributed to the results we have achieved together. we do not have much time now to pause and reflect – and not only because of the brexit situation. we need to implement the turkey deal. the instability surrounding europe and the related migration from north africa demand urgent action. and of course there is still a lot to do on the single market. and for that reason i hope that the eu – its institutions, member states and particularly citizens – will continue our pragmatic approach. my experiences over the past six months have underlined that we need an eu that delivers. an eu that focuses on the essentials and on issues that transcend borders. an eu that makes and then sticks to agreements. this will be a stronger eu, and one that can grow still stronger. in closing, i would like to express my thanks to the commission, to our colleagues in the council and, not least, to the european parliament for an outstanding and constructive partnership. it was an honour and a pleasure for us to hold the presidency, and we wish slovakia every success for the coming six months. (applause)
president of the commission. – mr president, to have a true measure of the progress achieved during the dutch presidency, we must remember where we started. as the new year began, the refugee crisis had reached another critical moment. thousands of people continued to risk their lives at sea. the humanitarian situation was becoming worse each day. at the same time, the terrorist attacks in paris were fresh in our minds. we were determined to defend our way of life, but we understood that our open society would always be vulnerable. sadly, this was confirmed a few months later in brussels. these were the difficult circumstances of the dutch presidency, but when you began to work, i was confident that this great country, one of our founding members, would call on its best qualities in a time of need. i am thinking of your belief in freedom and openness, your attachment to the rule of law and your commitment to responsible free trade and better law—making. this, as well as your pragmatism, will continue to shape the course of our union in years to come. i am particularly grateful to the dutch presidency for having been an active supporter of one of the leitmotifs of this commission: to be big on big issues and modest and timid on smaller ones. allen widrigen umständen zum trotz hat die niederländische ratspräsidentschaft stets besonnenheit und beharrlichkeit bewiesen. diese haltung hat europa insgesamt gut getan. dank der unaufgeregten und zupackenden vermittlung der niederländer sind uns große fortschritte gelungen. damit wir die ankunft der flüchtlinge in griechenland steuern können, haben wir mittlerweile ein abkommen mit der türkei, das zu wirken begonnen hat. die niederländische ratspräsidentschaft hat entscheidend dazu beigetragen, dass es zu diesem abkommen mit der türkei kam, und entscheidend dazu beigetragen, dass diese vereinbarungen auch nach geist und buchstabe umgesetzt werden. dies hat auch die grundlage dafür geschaffen, längerfristige lösungen anzugehen. wir haben bereits konkrete vorschläge und fortschritte gemacht, um die asylsysteme anzugleichen und die verantwortung in europa grundsätzlich solidarischer zu verteilen, weil nicht allein der platz auf der landkarte darüber entscheiden darf, wie viele flüchtlinge ein land aufnimmt. doch besonders hervorheben möchte ich die energische arbeit des niederländischen ratsvorsitzes in sachen schutz der außengrenzen und der küsten. es ist uns innerhalb weniger monate – sechs monate und ein paar tage – gelungen, dieses wichtige stück außen- und innenpolitik auf die gleise zu setzen. dafür möchte ich mich beim niederländischen vorsitz sehr herzlich bedanken. es hat einen trilog gegeben, die einigung steht, sie muss jetzt umgesetzt werden. und ich hätte gerne, dass das schnell passiert, denn die bürger europas haben ein recht auf den schutz der europäischen außengrenzen. monsieur le président, l'une des grandes priorités de cette commission est de compléter le marché intérieur là où cela est nécessaire. grâce à l'efficacité de la présidence néerlandaise, nous avons bien progressé sur plusieurs fronts, en particulier dans notre action pour une fiscalité des entreprises plus juste, mais aussi dans le domaine du marché numérique ou bien encore en matière de financement des entreprises, surtout des petites et moyennes entreprises, avec l'indispensable mise en place d'une union des marchés de capitaux. à cet égard, je me réjouis de l'accord intervenu au conseil "affaires économiques et financières" sur une feuille de route pour l'achèvement de l'union bancaire, complément indispensable de l'union économique et monétaire et du marché intérieur. pour conclure, monsieur le président, meneer eerste minister, je voudrais encore une fois rendre hommage à l'efficacité de la présidence néerlandaise, qui ne m'a pas surpris parce que je m'attendais à cette façon de travailler. nous avons pu – la présidence et la commission – travailler de la meilleure façon possible. hartelijk bedankt.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there is no doubt that the dutch presidency will go down as a historic one, but for reasons for which you, mr president-in-office of the council, cannot be blamed. six months ago, the main challenge of this presidency was the migration and refugee crisis and, while we cannot say that this crisis is over, we can say that it is more under control than in january, and this is due in no small part to the diligent work of your presidency, thanks to the professionalism of your officials and the commitment of your ministers. this chamber has benefited from the good sense of bert koenders and the input of our former colleague jeanine hennis-plasschaert and, as a result, under your watch we have found agreement on important legislation: the new frontex european border and coast guard, the fourth railway package, passenger name records, data protection and other matters. you have achieved these agreements not by seeking to deliver an abstract vision but by delivering concrete and practical results that make the eu work better. the dutch presidency has set an example for other presidencies to follow. a few years ago, mr rutte, you called for a policy of ‘european where necessary, national where possible’. you admitted that, all too often, agreements regarding the budget or the democratic rule of law have not been respected. you warned that europe is being associated more and more with an anonymous, formal and impersonal layer of government in which national sovereignty is being replaced by normative rules from brussels. those in this house – as well as commissioners and national leaders – who are impatient for a european army, who are impatient for a european fbi, who are impatient for european government would be advised to heed your words, and also to bear in mind the old dutch proverb that ‘a handful of patience is worth more than a bushel of praise’. an eu with or without the uk needs to listen to those wise words now more than ever.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i am sorry to hear that mr rutte woke up feeling dreadful on 24 june. i had been campaigning really hard for a long time before that, and i had spent at least the last two days unable to get any sleep at all. i had spent the whole night watching the results come in, drinking local beer and having a fantastic local curry, and i must say, i felt fantastic. but i think that is probably to do with the feeling of freedom. i think it does that for you. now is the time to embrace the democratic will of the people. now is the time to stop with any further ‘project fear’, any talking down of the economy, any more concerns. now is the time to be bright and positive, to look to the future, to put aside the arguments of the campaigns and to be friends, because brexit brings hope – not just to the uk, but to all the peoples of europe. we can have a better future, we can be different, we can have change, and we can show that through the democratic will which was shown in the uk and which, hopefully, will be shown in many countries – even in mr rutte’s. it is time to be positive, friendly and optimistic. the future for the uk is golden, but we truly wish the best for our friends in europe too. there is no reason now for any further antipathy, any more of the unpleasantness that has been seen – in this place particularly, but also in other places. that time is gone. the eu is a failed project. the uk has shown the way to freedom, and i truly hope that all of our friends across europe get the same chance that we had to embrace freedom and a bright future soon.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, winston churchill once said that when the eagles are silent, the parrots begin to jabber. thankfully, last tuesday and wednesday the eagles – the heads of government – spoke. cooler and calmer heads began to prevail, drowning out the parrots. and, while the council does not want to live in limbo forever, it is right that eu leaders are saying they must respect the treaties and respect the right of the british government to decide how best to respond. in the eu it is for the respective national governments to decide how best to respond to a national referendum. this is the case even now, where the netherlands has been given the space to decide its response to its referendum in march. the treaties are clear, and if anyone does not like what the lisbon treaty says, then blame the authors and the signatories. who knows, maybe one or two of them are in this chamber here today! some here are quick to point the finger at others and accuse them of breaching the rule of law, while at the same time casting aside our own rules and precedents when it does not suit the majority: ganging up on political groups they do not agree with to deny them committee positions or responsibility for reports that they are entitled to under the d’hondt system; or interfering in the internal affairs of member states where they do not like the democratically elected government of that country. the more that commissioners, the european parliament and international leaders try to pressure the uk, the more they justify the decision that the british people have taken. the british referendum was just the latest wake-up call for the eu, and many rightly respond by calling for more reform. the problem is, it is not the reform that mark rutte speaks of when he said ‘european where necessary, national where possible’. instead, they seek to pursue the 1950s european project, to build the united states of europe and to ask why it has not happened already. donald tusk was right to say that people are disillusioned with grand utopian visions of the future and just want us to cope better with the present. some in brussels draw different conclusions and, instead of wanting to get on with a friendly relationship with the uk, foster hope that maybe a part of the united kingdom can remain in the eu, rolling out the red carpet for the first minister of scotland. i am sure that the people of flanders, catalonia and the basque country will be encouraged to see eu leaders enthusiastically embracing regional self-determination. in this chamber we rightly talk about the lessons of history, but what about the lessons that warn of the peril when leaders become disconnected from their people? increasingly, decisions in the eu are not necessarily being made in an open and transparent way, especially in this chamber. decisions are not always made by all 751 meps from across the continent. politics is about perception and there is a perception that decisions are increasingly made by five men sitting in a room and cutting deals among themselves. this is not a perception of democracy – and, if you really want to show that you are open and transparent, then stop the ‘grand coalition’ backroom stitch-ups. my group does not want the eu to break up, but to avoid this the eu must seriously change how it works. whatever the challenge, ‘more europe’ is not always the answer. ignoring the results of national elections and referenda and saying we continue anyway is not a good enough response. eu heads of state and governments are rightly meeting in bratislava this september to ask some tough questions, and that is what the ecr group was created to do: to sometimes ask those tough questions that people in this chamber do not necessarily want to hear. with or without the uk, there are a growing number of people across the european union who want change. so my plea to all of you is, listen to those who want the eu to meet the challenges of the future. listen to those who want politicians to start addressing their legitimate concerns even where we may disagree, and listen to those who want their leaders to focus on creating jobs and growth, rather than creating political utopias.
blue-card question. – i am confused by your comments and some of the other ones today. are you aware of how british parliamentary democracy works? what happened was that the leaders of the main parties and of government were all eu fans – they were all on your side. the people voted the other way. it was not a change of government. you say the brexit side has no plan, but the brexit side is not the government: the government has to change to allow someone to be prime minister who will actually carry through the will of the people. that is how our democracy works, so when you say these assertions, you are missing the point of exactly what a referendum actually is.
blue-card question. – do you not appreciate that while you have spoken here about this great wooden tower – this tower of babel – it is built on a bed of straw? its two key foundations, as we hear all the time – the two pillars that represent the european union – are freedom of movement and the eurozone, yet the italian banks are on the verge of an extra bailout. we see it cannot work. the big issue here, i would contend, is contagion. you really know, in your heart of hearts, that the people of the european union supported trade, but they do not support political union.
blue-card question. – ms harms, you seemed to be a bit contradictory in your exposition, because you seemed to be saying that the eu is a construction in favour of rich people – which i would agree with, but they are very rich people at the top. do you understand that the people in the uk who voted to leave were in fact predominantly – not all, but predominantly – those people who have been hit hardest by the european union, who have had to bear the economic burden: the people who do not have jobs, who do not have prospects, who are seeing their living standards being driven down? do you understand that it was those people who voted to leave, and that, in fact, the eu is a construction for very rich people at the top: the big banks and the goldman sachs of this world?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i want to start by really changing the tone of this debate. ms harms, i am not going to rabble-rouse in any way, shape or form, because i am sure that things were said in the heat of the moment, in the aftermath of brexit, which many people regret – not only certain people in this chamber and in the commission, but also in the uk itself. the british people have spoken, and threats and bullying are not the answer to the questions that the uk leaving the european union has thrown up. i want to look forwards and not backwards, because what is needed is some fair and equitable negotiations that will ensure that the best deal is struck, both for the british people and for the european union. as an elected representative, i have a duty to ensure that the will of our people is fulfilled. now, mr juncker, i am not here to crow. i am not here to gloat. i am not here to hector, but merely to tell you that it is in both our interests to get the best deal possible. we, in the european parliament, should put aside the language of conflict and, as elected representatives, work towards a viable and prosperous future together. the outcome of this referendum is clear. the british people want to leave the european union and also cease being a member of the single market which entails freedom of movement of people. we want access to the single market, like the united states, like china, like russia and many other countries around the globe. but we will take back control of our borders, our own laws and our own money. in the longer term, we would like to see a free trade deal between the european union and ourselves. this makes sense not just for us, but also for the eu. we, the british, have a huge trading deficit with the european union: gbp 60 billion alone last year. millions of jobs on the continent are dependent on british trade. we are the french farmers’ biggest marketplace, purchasing 35 million bottles of champagne last year alone. we are the german car manufacturers’ biggest marketplace, buying 800 000 german cars last year. the last thing any of us want, in my country or here, is a tariff war, which will be mutually destructive for both our economies. the uk and europe are joined by geography, culture, history and trade, and that will not change. therefore, it is imperative on so many levels that we are good, healthy trading neighbours. we owe it to the citizens of both the uk and europe to conduct these negotiations in a grown-up manner so we can get the best deal for everyone. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the police have made it perfectly clear that what is happening in the uk in terms of hate crime tends to happen after any national or international event, and that the rise in hate crime is not actually that great. at the end of may, for example, there were 54 hate crimes in britain, and there were 87 at the end of this month. but i want to say we should have no hate crimes not just in our country, but anywhere across europe. in terms of making it clear that people will not be moved, people are protected by something called the vienna convention, which predates even britain’s membership of the european union. our people – pensioners in spain and portugal and italy and everywhere else – are protected in the eu, just as eu citizens are protected in britain. as i say, i want us to be good neighbours; i want us to crack on with negotiations and i want us to trade together.
mr president, we have heard a number of voices in this debate from british people who were pleased, indeed triumphant, that britain is leaving the european union. allow me to speak as one of the 48% who voted to remain, who regret this decision and who will be sad if britain leaves this union that we have helped to build over many years. a referendum is normally called to settle an issue, but britain at the moment does not seem to me to be calm and settled. it is in political turmoil. there are economic problems, with the pound falling and the aaa rating lost. huge questions are being asked about what comes next. there are even people – perhaps surprisingly – challenging the result of this referendum. there is a petition to parliament, started by a leave supporter, which has had over 4 million signatures asking parliament not to trigger article 50. there are demonstrations. there is the scottish government saying that this decision should not necessarily apply to all the countries of britain. why do you think there are challenges to the result of a democratic referendum? well, partly because nigel farage himself said that 52% to 48% settles nothing. of course, when he said it he thought the result would be the other way around. people now are perhaps beginning to take him at his word. others are just shocked at the number of leave lies that were told in the referendum campaign, the number of issues where those wishing to leave simply told, and repeated, blatant lies. finally, there are what i would call the remain truths – the warnings about the consequences of leaving, which were rubbished as being scare tactics. however, the reality is beginning to show, with companies leaving britain, what has happened to the pound and what has happened to the economy, and in these circumstances it is not surprising that many people wish to reconsider – those who voted to leave, crucially. above all, there is one point that is much more important. why has the government not triggered article 50? because it cannot. there is no agreed position in britain on what it should seek as an alternative. the leave side offered two completely different visions. one group said ‘let us stay in the single market’ (we heard that just now): ‘of course there will be no problem; they will let us trade with the single market.’ but then you have to follow the common rules for the common market (on which you would have no say anymore, by the way), including the principle of free movement, which is exactly what they were urging people to vote against. others in the leave campaign said ‘no, no: leave the european market. we will go global.’ but then you face a tariff barrier on every british good sold in the single market. so when the government, or the future prime minister, comes off the fence and chooses one of those two options, there will be people in britain, who voted to leave, who will say ‘hang on a minute: that is not what we were told, that is not what we voted for.’ and i will not be surprised at all if you see leave supporters asking for a rethink. this issue is not as settled as it might appear to be at first sight. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the range of views on what should be the future of europe was indeed widely debated in britain and there are many views on the future of europe, but let us remember the basic rule book of the european union: the treaties are laid down by agreement among all the member states. so the idea that the union could go off in a direction that was unacceptable to one or another of those member states and that could be imposed on them against their will was just one of the other leave lies that were put about in this referendum campaign.
madam president, there is a children’s poem that says ‘for the want of a nail, the kingdom was lost’. the british referendum was lost for the want of education and information – especially in our media – to fight the anti-european propaganda of years and years, especially by foreign—owned media bosses. for the want of governments that recognise the widening gaps in society, the haves and the have—nots and the left behind. for the want of truth. this referendum campaign was packed with exaggerations, threats and downright lies. for the want of all these things and more, the referendum was lost, and i, like the 48% who voted to stay in, am heartbroken. we’ve been overwhelmed by the support from friends across the eu who wanted us to stay, but i’m heartbroken most for the young, who will miss their opportunities; heartbroken for the entrepreneurs who see doors closing; heartbroken for scientists who see horizons shrinking; for businesses, for farmers, for bankers and for the rest, whose future is now so uncertain. i’m heartbroken. but it was all lost. in the uk, we must mend our politics – it is chaos and embarrassment and packed with hate. but we must move our politics into the 21st century, and we must have a general election soon: we cannot allow one single party to decide the leader of our country. the 48% must not be forgotten. as a liberal democrat, i am a pro-european, will continue to be pro-european, and will fight for that. we need to sort out our relationship with the eu. europe, eu, we will miss you. you have your own work to do to adjust and to go forward, but this was not just a wake—up call for the uk. please don’t ignore what happened in the uk: take your people with you. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – not the only one, the greens too. yes, it’s a crazy situation: one that the government thought they would win, and it was a poor campaign that was, as i said, packed with lies. we now have an awful lot to do: we have to repair our politics of abdication and chaos, where everybody has run away because it’s too difficult to sort out. we will be there, fighting for the pro-european voice to be heard: the voice of sense and the voice of the people.
madam president, i heard mr weber say earlier that ‘there is a problem in london’. what an understatement that was. the absence of political leadership from westminster is absolutely shameful in these circumstances. the uk government has no plan, and even those who led the leave campaign have no idea what to do next. perhaps we should not be surprised, given that their campaign was based – as many have said – upon lies, but also that it seems that they did not expect to win. i am glad that colleagues have recognised that the uk is not one country. in fact, it is four different ones, and the brexit referendum underlines that fact once again. the result in scotland, my country, was a clear majority in favour of remaining in the european union. the remain campaign in scotland was based on the positive, outlining the many benefits which derive from eu membership and with a vision for the future. i think that the negative result in england was based on decades of failure by uk governments, decades of half—hearted approaches to eu membership, decades of blaming brussels for anything that seems unpopular, and decades of failing to underline the fact that it is elected governments and meps who make the decisions in the european union. by contrast, the scottish government and nicola sturgeon, with a cross-party mandate, seek to achieve and give effect to what scotland voted for and, in the coming months, will be working hard and positively to that effect. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card question. – mr hudghton, more scots voted to remain in the united kingdom in the neverendum which you inflicted on our country than voted to remain in the european union. therefore the matter is settled. scotland is part of the united kingdom. there is also not a great number of people who are in favour of the european union. i speak for the 40% of scots who voted against the european union. we knew when we had the referendum that the decision would be for the entire united kingdom. why is mrs sturgeon continuing to damage the scottish economy with her nonsense, creating trouble in europe? the europeans are not interested. the spanish will veto it because they do not want any trouble with catalonia and their other regions. so you are wasting your time and i wish you would stop damaging the scottish economy. do you agree with me, sir?
blue-card answer. – i struggled to hear the question in that, but i acknowledge that mr coburn speaks for the 40%. i speak for the 60% in scotland who voted in favour of remaining within the european union. can i remind the house of another thing that nicola sturgeon has said recently? that is the fact that the united kingdom, which scotland voted to remain a part of a couple of years ago, no longer exists. people like mr coburn and the others on the unionist side of that argument promised that, if scotland voted to remain part of the uk, our eu membership would be safeguarded. now it is at risk.
madam president, the uk is a bit like belgium was a few years ago. we are doing ok without national leaders. i would like to address mr tusk. this is directly to you, sir. i am not here to gloat but to say that i came into politics to get my country out of the european union and vote brexit – and they did. i am the 52%. i believe the victory of national democracy will encourage my friends in other nations to fight for their right to determine their own national interests. and of course we condemn all the attacks on european citizens. they are most welcome and particularly the polish. at home we have had scaremongering by our own prime minister and chancellor. they deliberately talked our economy down. that caused a little ripple in the financial markets last friday, but luckily the ftse has reasserted and corrected itself and the pound is now finding its true level. european businesses will recognise that they need to continue to trade with us. after all, over eur 288 billion of eu trade is with the uk. our commonwealth partners, the us, south korea and others are queuing up to do free trade deals with us. don’t be left behind. that is why it is imperative that mr juncker and the commission take no part in this negotiation process, which my group called for last week. i actually put that motion down and my group agreed with it. jobs and business matter, not political retribution. he has also proved over the past few weeks that he is unable and unfit to lead these negotiations. therefore i would like you, mr tusk, to head up the negotiations, along with the other 27 european heads of government: they recognise trade. let us take this divorce forward. let us make it amicable and make it mutually beneficial to both my country and the european union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer. – i was elected to take us out of the european union. i am the 52%. i do not know what some of you do not understand about democracy in this place. the 52% voted. we are going and actually the united kingdom has the commonwealth. our queen is the head of state of many countries. you do not have that; maybe that is why you need to be part of this sclerotic union.
blue-card question. – in the past few weeks i must have spoken to thousands of voters in the uk. those who voted remain voted for economic and political stability and recognise that there have been many mutual benefits from working together. those who voted leave did so because they felt the eu was out of touch and undemocratic; they were concerned about the five presidents making decisions that they felt they were not in contact with. they saw the unemployment on the edges of the euro and were scared. they were fearful about migration. they won, and we need to listen to them. i hope we can have a mutually beneficial agreement for the long term, but we need to take time. so please, will you be calm. take time.
madam president, i speak directly to presidents tusk, juncker and schulz. brexit will damage the north of ireland more than it will damage anywhere else, and if anyone tells you otherwise, they are living in cloud—cuckoo-land. we have farmers, smes, women’s groups, the community and voluntary sector, universities, foreign direct investment, construction workers and 23 000 cross-border workers and students who cross the border every day. brexit will turn the north into an economic basket case: 1.2 billion worth of trade every week across ireland. the democratic unionist party’s leave campaign was reckless and it was wrong, and the political football was set up in order to get stronger links with britain, harder borders and damage the all-ireland economy. i say to you: the people of the north of ireland voted to remain, and they want that accepted and to be respected.
madam president, during the referendum campaign, i argued that the european union has played a vital role in underpinning stability and democracy across our continent. we should not take our democratic rights for granted and i am shocked by the instability and divisions that the vote to leave, and the campaign itself, have caused in my country. many of those who voted for the uk to leave the eu did so for principled reasons, some of which i agree with, but i think it would be dangerously politically naive to ignore the fact that, within the current wave of inarticulate hostility against the european union, there are forces whose intention is not to reform our institutions, but to undermine democracy itself. as a result of the vote to leave the eu, my country is left without a government or opposition and with a frightening increase in the number of racist attacks. i have no doubt that we will return to a state of stable democratic governance but, in the meantime, i offer some reassurance to those who are unsettled by recent developments. as individuals, please wear the safety pin, to show that we stand together against the tiny minority of racists, whether you voted to leave or to remain. as greens, we will fight to ensure that eu citizens already living in the uk will be allowed to stay and we insist that they are treated respectfully. we will also do our utmost to achieve an electoral system in which votes are translated into seats fairly, so that nobody feels their voice is unheard and politicians act as true representatives. finally, we will ensure that our decision to leave the eu is not used as an excuse to launch a race to the bottom in terms of environmental standards, taxation and workers’ rights. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – you were right to point out that not all leave voters are racist. of course not. do you agree, nonetheless, that most racists did vote leave and the leave campaign organisers went after that vote with some notorious posters seeking to get support from the extremes on the right wing fringe?
blue-card answer. – i do agree that there was some entirely reprehensible language used about other europeans and this has led to racist attacks against people in my country. i do think that came from one side. i think there was a mobilisation of racism by some elements of the leave campaign. i also believe it revealed how thin the veneer of civilization is in all our communities and how we must all stand up against racism and fascism as soon as we see it and give it absolutely no houseroom.
madam president, can i say, first of all, that now is not a time for recrimination? as mr juncker said, where is the plan? the truth is they never expected to win, and the truth is, neither london nor brussels had a plan, has a plan, and they now have to go and construct that plan. while northern ireland voted to remain within the european union, i have to say i respect the united kingdom as a whole, as a nation-state. we stand by that. there is no question of anything else for northern ireland, difficult though it will be for us. the uk decision must, in my opinion, be respected. there will be many twists and turns on the rocky road ahead that we now have to travel. i have to say to you, mr tusk, that you have a massive responsible role to play here. mr juncker, to date, your comments and actions have not been helpful and, sir, you are part of the problem and maybe not part of the solution. can i say to this house that it was a massive mistake to send david cameron back to fight the referendum with one hand tied behind his back? do not make that mistake again.
mr president, britain has voted against the bureaucracy of the european union. the united kingdom did not vote against europe. we do not abandon our allies. we remain committed to the security, prosperity and success of this continent. you have to understand that out of over 17 million citizens who voted to leave, barely a quarter support ukip. most of them want to preserve close commercial, diplomatic and military relations with our friends. they just want to get back the right to make their own laws. i very much hope that as the uk builds links with continents further afield, we will remain committed to our european partners in their economic success, which is vital to our own. you're gonna lose a bad tenant and gain a good neighbor.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against giving consent to this agreement. ukip is opposed to the eu negotiating visa agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour this agreement, which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of peru when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special-passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps vote against these issues when they come before the european parliament due to a belief that it should be a matter for member states to deal with issues such as visa waivers.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as it relates to the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the uk has opted out. however, i welcome the potential commercial and tourism benefits of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against giving consent to this agreement. ukip is opposed to the eu negotiating visa agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported this agreement, which will allow visa-free travel between eu member states, other than the uk, and peru. the agreement would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreements with this country.
in writing. ‒ although this agreement will not affect the uk because it has its own national visa agreements with peru, i support the move to enable visa-free travel between other eu member states and peru – promoting further economic and cultural relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as i support this agreement to enable visa-free travel between eu member states, other than the uk, and peru. the agreement would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreements with this country.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support this agreement to enable visa-free travel between eu member states, other than the uk, and peru. the agreement would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreements with this country.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against giving consent to this agreement. ukip is opposed to the eu negotiating visa agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against giving consent to this agreement. ukip is opposed to the eu negotiating visa agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against giving consent to this agreement. ukip is opposed to the eu negotiating visa agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ while this agreement will not affect the uk, as it has its own national visa agreements with peru, i support this agreement which will enable visa-free travel between other eu member states and peru.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support this agreement to enable visa-free travel between eu member states, other than the uk, and peru. the agreement would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreements with this country.
in writing. – labour meps support this agreement to enable visa-free travel between eu member states, other than the uk, and peru. the agreement would not affect the uk, which has its own national visa agreements with this country.
mr president, i will speak in my own language for this one simply because i think the issue we are debating goes to the heart of the difference between a single market and the common market. everyone on both sides in the recent uk referendum is in favour of a common market in the sense of unrestricted trade and opportunities to benefit mutually from commerce with our friends across the channel, but when we get to regulating issues of this sort – emissions limits for non-road mobile machinery – we realise that, instead of a market that deals with mutual product recognition and cross-border issues, we are entering a single regulatory regime. every country in the world, pretty much, has access to the eu single market. if you look at what it says on the back of your smartphone, it says ‘designed in california, assembled in china’. neither of those countries has a trade deal with the eu but, of course, we are still able to purchase their products. what the argument will now be about is the extent to which the uk accepts continuing jurisdiction over the bits of its exports that do not go to the eu, and i hope that those talks will take place in a friendly atmosphere, taking for granted, i hope, our continuing military, diplomatic and commercial ties to countries which, in any dispensation, will remain our friends and our allies.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with emission limits for non-road mobile machinery (nrmm). it addresses type approval for internal combustion engines, given that nrmm engines constitute a significant proportion of the total man-made emissions of certain noxious atmospheric pollutants. in some cities, non-road mobile machinery (which includes construction machines, vessels and railways etc.) is responsible for up to 30% of traffic pollution. the figures indicate that nrmm is responsible for around 7% of airborne particulates and 16% of nitrogen oxides in europe, causing 400 000 premature deaths each year according to the world health organisation. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report tightens the limits imposed by the european commission for the power ranges of many engines. i opposed this report because i believe that it is right for the united kingdom to set our own energy policy; my vote against was on the grounds of this principle rather than related to the specific proposed standards.
in writing. ‒ having worked on the internal market committee opinion to this report i am pleased to see that one of the key objectives i supported, the right to put replacement engines on the non-road mobile machinery market, was maintained. this will prevent smaller operators, particularly in the agricultural and construction sectors, from having to purchase brand-new machinery many years before their machinery would be considered to be at the end of its working life (potentially up to 25 years).
in writing. ‒ ukip objects to new eu legislation in this field. we believe that the uk should make its own energy policy, and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ currently, 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of total particulate matter emissions in the eu are caused by non-road mobile machinery (nrmm). i voted in favour of this report, which will set strict emission limits for nrmm engines on the eu market from 2019. by doing so, this report encourages industry to produce progressively cleaner engines for these machines – and that will, in turn, have environmental and health benefits for citizens.
in writing. ‒ currently, 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of total particulate matter emissions in the eu are caused by non-road mobile machinery (nrmm). i voted in favour of this report, which will set strict emission limits for nrmm engines on the eu market from 2019. by doing so, the report encourages industry to produce progressively cleaner engines for these machines and will bring both environmental and health benefits for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it will ensure industry is manufacturing progressively cleaner engines for these machines and will bring both environmental and health benefits for citizens.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of strict emission limits for non-road mobile machinery (nrmm) placed on the eu market from 2019. 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of total pm emissions in the eu are caused by nrmm, mainly due to construction sites and machinery. this report will ensure that industry is manufacturing progressively cleaner engines for these machines and will bring both environmental and health benefits for citizens.
in writing. ‒ ukip objects to new eu legislation in this field. we believe that the uk should make its own energy policy, and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ ukip objects to new eu legislation in this field. we believe that the uk should make its own energy policy, and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it leads to new eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ in the voting session today i voted in favour of this legislative report as it will introduce strict emission limits for non-road mobile machinery placed on the eu market from 2019. currently, 15% of total nox emissions – and 5% of total particulate-matter emissions – in the eu are caused by non-road mobile machinery. this report will ensure that industry is manufacturing progressively cleaner engines for these machines and will bring both environmental and health benefits for citizens.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of strict emission limits for non-road mobile machinery (nrmm) placed on the eu market from 2019. 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of total pm emissions in the eu are caused by nrmm, mainly due to construction sites and machinery. this report will ensure that industry is manufacturing progressively cleaner engines for these machines and will bring both environmental and health benefits for citizens.
in writing. – the proposal aims to regulate harmful emissions from engines installed in so-called non-road mobile machinery (nrmm), a term which covers a wide variety of machinery such as construction machinery, inland water vessels, trains, chainsaws and generator sets. emissions from engines in nrmm contribute significantly to the eu’s total polluting emissions. this is therefore an important piece of source-level air-quality legislation to ensure that member states meet their national air-quality targets set under other eu legislation. i voted in favour of the report as i believe it will bring both environmental and health benefits by reducing pollutant emissions of nitrogen oxides (nox), hydro-carbons (hc), carbon-monoxide (co), and particulate matter (pm) from engines fitted in nrmm. in addition, my s & d group colleagues managed to include important provisions on the protection of workers’ health and safety and for the retrofitting of machines already in use.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it included calls for more eu interference and rules on asylum and immigration policy. the report also criticised member states that have tried to control their borders externally and internally in the schengen area. the only people who should take decisions on these things are elected national governments in compliance with the 1951 geneva convention on refugees. none of this should be decided on or dictated by unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides a good starting point for a process to assist refuges in integrating better, and also in participating in the basic human right to work. moreover, the report contains references to facilitating refugees and asylum seekers in having access to housing, health care, education, social protection and family reunification. for the majority of refugees in europe, integration is the most relevant durable solution, and eu member states have a responsibility to ensure that there are programmes and associated support available to facilitate immigrant integration, and also to identify effective practice. employment is often the key concern for refugee respondents. regarding entering the labour market, specific barriers exist for refugees in addition to the challenges that other migrants face. challenges often include loss of identity documentation and qualification certificates, non-acceptance of qualifications or educational attainment, trauma and uncertainty, anxiety over family separation, the long period of inactivity in the asylum system, and limited social networks. it is, therefore, very positive that this report provides such a compassionate and empathetic approach to the needs of people who are fleeing war.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the final resolution, essentially because there were too many calls for the european commission to take action: issues relating to immigration and asylum should be the responsibility of the member states. many of the individual roll-call votes made little, if any, distinction between those who have claimed asylum, and those who have been granted asylum. i believe that there is a substantive difference between the two.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it included calls for more eu interference and rules on asylum and immigration policy. the report also criticised member states that have tried to control their borders externally and internally in the schengen area. the only people who should take decisions on these things are elected national governments in compliance with the 1951 geneva convention on refugees. none of this should be decided on or dictated by unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the call for the establishment of a common asylum system, as well as the improvement of safe and legal migration channels. my constituents in wales have persistently expressed their concern over the refugee crisis, and will be pleased to see the promotion of social protection standards and support for those who need it most.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which calls for the full integration of refugees into the labour market and for improved safe and legal migration channels. it addresses the need for a common asylum system to improve recognition procedures as well as ensuring decent conditions upon arrival, with facilitated access to housing, health care, education, social protection and the labour market. any approach, european or otherwise, must ensure that families are able to reunite and that vulnerable groups (particularly those with disabilities, women and children, and especially unaccompanied children) are protected. we must have a strategy which will restore and secure the human dignity of refugees: they must be allowed to gain economic independence and significantly contribute to their successful integration into the host societies.
in writing. ‒ this report correctly notes the legal and moral duties that the eu and its member states have with regard to refugees. it is vital that people with refugee status are able to integrate fully into the labour market at the earliest opportunity. the uk’s recent referendum saw the leave side using refugees as part of the wider racist discourse against the eu. this report shows a sharp contrast to those attitudes and i was happy to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of this report. a european approach must address key issues such as non-discrimination, access to education and training, housing, health care, labour market and social protection, the recognition of qualifications and the validation of skills, as well as family reunification and the situation and needs of vulnerable groups (mostly women, children and people with disabilities, etcetera), as these are essential aspects with a view to restoring the human dignity of refugees and allowing them to gain economic independence and contribute significantly to their successful integration in the host societies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls for the swift and full integration of refugees into the labour market and for the improvement of safe and legal migration channels, and highlights the need for a common asylum system to improve recognition procedures as well as ensuring decent conditions upon arrival, with facilitated access to housing, health care, education and social protection and to the labour market. furthermore the report identifies the need to tackle all forms of discrimination to ensure a better integration of refugees. anti-discrimination policies and also civil society initiatives, sport and culture are identified as offering potential solutions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it included calls for more eu interference and rules on asylum and immigration policy. the report also criticised member states that have tried to control their borders externally and internally in the schengen area. the only people who should take decisions on these things are elected national governments in compliance with the 1951 geneva convention on refugees. none of this should be decided on or dictated by unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it included calls for more eu interference and rules on asylum and immigration policy. the report also criticised member states that have tried to control their borders externally and internally in the schengen area. the only people who should take decisions on these things are elected national governments in compliance with the 1951 geneva convention on refugees. none of this should be decided on or dictated by unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. it included calls for more eu interference and rules on asylum and immigration policy. the report also criticised member states that have tried to control their borders externally and internally in the schengen area. the only people who should take decisions on these things are elected national governments in compliance with the 1951 geneva convention on refugees. none of this should be decided on or dictated by unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for swift and full integration of refugees into the labour market and for their social inclusion in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination. along with my labour colleagues i voted in favour of the report, which calls for a much-needed european approach to address key issues such as access to education and training, non-discrimination, health care, labour and social protection, and the recognition and validation of skills and qualifications. any approach, european or otherwise, needs to ensure that families are able to be reunified and that the situation of vulnerable groups (particularly those with disabilities, women and children, and especially unaccompanied children) is addressed. we must have a strategy which will restore and secure the human dignity of refugees: they must be allowed to gain economic independence and significantly contribute to their successful integration into the host societies. this report goes some way to address these issues and i can support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted today with my eplp colleagues in favour of this report which calls for a swift and full integration of refugees into the labour market and their social inclusion in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination. a european approach must address key issues such as non-discrimination, access to education and training (including an emphasis on language learning from arrival), housing, health care, labour market and social protection, recognition of qualifications and validation of skills, as well as family reunification, the situation and needs of vulnerable groups, mostly women, children (in particular the worrying number of unaccompanied children), and people with disabilities, etc., which are essential to restore the human dignity of refugees, allow them to gain economic independence and significantly contribute to their successful integration in the host societies.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the excellent work of my colleague brando benifei on this report and accordingly i voted in favour of it. the report includes the perspective of the culture and education committee of which i am a member, highlighting the key role played by culture and education. indeed, education is the key to both the economic and social inclusion of refugees and asylum seekers, in particular young people. that is why the cult committee has put forward the notion of ‘education corridors’ and calls for further supporting the cooperation between eu universities and universities in places of conflict, to ensure that children and young people who have to flee their country can still pursue their education. it is not only important for the welcoming countries, who will benefit from the economic contribution of educated newcomers, it is a moral/human duty for european societies to guarantee that those young people have the opportunity of a brighter future. i particularly advocate a proper recognition of the role of informal learning, including lifelong learning, sport, volunteering, culture and the arts which, by providing spaces for intercultural dialogue and exchange, not only facilitate the social inclusion of refugees into their new communities, but also address stereotypes, prejudices and discrimination by the majority.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because we oppose the politicisation of trade by the eu. trade should be about trade, and not the eu using its financial muscle to force weaker trade partners into obeying its political ideology.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for legally binding human rights and social and environmental standards in the eu’s international trade agreements. it also calls for human rights impact assessments and sustainability impact assessments to become binding, and further highlights the commission’s recent decision to rubber-stamp the vietnam eu free trade agreement without having done so. the resolution further calls for the commission to act within the world trade organisation to promote the setting of enforceable rules for the sustainable management of global supply chains by multinational companies. in addition, it insists that countries signing trade agreements with the eu must also ratify and implement the ilo’s core labour conventions, as well as reasserting the need to maintain and strengthen the role of the international labour organisation (ilo) in international trade agreement negotiations. it calls for full transparency in the negotiations, which is still lacking in the ongoing negotiations on agreements such as ttip and tisa. sinn féin in europe are committed to ensuring that social and labour rights are protected and are continuing to fight the implementation of the neoliberal agenda. for sinn féin, human rights and social rights must always come before profit.
in writing. ‒ whilst much of the text of this report was unobjectionable, i eventually voted against for two reasons. firstly, it supports the politicisation of trade. secondly, it deals with matters which should be the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because we oppose the politicisation of trade by the eu. trade should be about trade, and not the eu using its financial muscle to force weaker trade partners into obeying its political ideology.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as several of the suggested proposals are positive. environmental protection is a very important issue to my constituents in wales, and i recognise that our priority is to strengthen the guarantees in trade and sustainable development chapters.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for swift and full integration of refugees into the labour market and for their social inclusion in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination. the report calls for a much-needed european approach to address key issues such as access to education and training, non-discrimination, health care, labour and social protection, and the recognition and validation of skills and qualifications. a key aspect of any strategy is ensuring that families are able to be reunified and that the situation of vulnerable groups (particularly those with disabilities, women and children, and especially unaccompanied children) is addressed. human dignity of refugees must be at centre of any strategy – and they must be allowed to gain economic independence and significantly contribute to their successful integration into the host societies. this report addresses many of these aspects, and along with my labour colleagues i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour this report which is fully in line with the labour party and trade unions’ positions, and calls for the commission to reform wto governance – including a gender-sensitive approach and human rights clauses in trade agreements. it further endorses the ituc’s priorities for the responsible management of global supply chains, and calls for giving a formal role to trade unions in the gsp regulation.
in writing. ‒ as longstanding european parliament rapporteur on corporate social responsibility, i welcome this report and am grateful for support for my own amendments referencing the framework of the international integrated reporting council, towards the eu itself adhering to the oecd declaration on international investment and multinational enterprise and reiterating our call for the eu to engage constructively in the un working group for a treaty process on business and human rights. in this debate, i draw attention as well to the importance of the ‘compass’ which is enabling business to measure its contribution to the un sustainable development goals and to the long-term investment project being undertaken by the un principles for responsible investment. i particularly welcome support for the concept of a ‘sustainable capital markets union’. as i said to a recent meeting of the european social investment forum on this subject which we hosted in the european parliament, investors are the key to long-term value creation so that european business can itself be sustainable.
in writing. ‒ the eu has done important work in the fields of social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. this report notes however that there is still much to do. it is a pity that the uk has voted to exempt itself from future progress, as the rightward drift of westminster politics is unlikely to keep up with the eu. this is yet another reason why it is essential for scotland to retain its place in europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it calls on the commission to urge for a reform of wto governance, incorporate a gender-sensitive approach, include effective human rights clauses in trade agreements, and further involve the european parliament in decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is fully in line with the labour party and trade unions’ positions. it endorses the ituc’s priorities for the responsible management of global supply chains, and calls for giving a formal role to trade unions in the gsp regulation.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because we oppose the politicisation of trade by the eu. trade should be about trade, and not the eu using its financial muscle to force weaker trade partners into obeying its political ideology.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because we oppose the politicisation of trade by the eu. trade should be about trade, and not the eu using its financial muscle to force weaker trade partners into obeying its political ideology.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this because we oppose the politicisation of trade by the eu. trade should be about trade, and not the eu using its financial muscle to force weaker trade partners into obeying its political ideology.
in writing. ‒ with my colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it is intended as a follow-up to a series of recommendations issued in 2010 by the european parliament with respect to social and environmental standards (referred to under the heading of tsd for trade and sustainable development), human rights and corporate social responsibility in the context of the eu’s common commercial policy. these recommendations relate to the multilateral level (in particular with respect to wto governance), the bilateral level (eu free trade agreements) and unilateral eu actions (the eu’s trade preference regime).
in writing. – my colleagues and i voted in favour of this resolution as it is in line with labour and trade unions’ positions. it endorses the ituc’s priorities for the responsible management of global supply chains, and calls for giving a formal role to trade unions in the gsp regulation. the principles laid down in the report are also in line with the alternative trade mandate that i support and to which the european parliament subscribed in 2014. it was put together through consultation with more than 50 civil society organisations, including trade unions, and i believe it is important that the european parliament sticks to its principles.
in writing. ‒ we feel that the best way for international trade to proceed is for nation states to agree deals with each other, not for the eu to create yet more trouble in international trade with its demands. we feel that an independent britain, which is now on the horizon of being made official, will be a leader and example in this regard.
in writing. ‒ while it includes some constructive language around low-carbon economies, illegal wildlife trade and some mention of the precautionary principle, overall this is a very negative report containing some very regressive provisions. in particular, it called for the trade agreement ceta to be ratified as swiftly as possible for the ‘future interests of eu businesses’. sinn féin in europe has worked tirelessly on highlighting the dangers of these trade agreements. moreover, it welcomes the ttip reading rooms for meps as a commission ‘transparency initiative’, despite the fact that any mep has to sign a confidentiality agreement before entering the room. it should further be remembered that what’s inside the reading room is just the tip of the iceberg; the most sensitive documents are still hidden from meps and even national governments. the report also celebrates the commission’s efforts in bringing forward the new investment court system, an initiative with the sole purpose of allowing corporations to sue governments for enacting policies in the public interest through the democratic system.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a trade and investment strategy for the european union, and it is reasonable to expect trade partners of the european union to act in a fair and reasonable manner. however, the language throughout this report seeks to give greater power to the commission, and for that reason i had to vote against overall.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, given its focus on increased support for small and medium-sized enterprises and expanding market access into growing economies of the world. however, i have some concerns about certain protectionist elements of the report which my conservative colleagues have argued against in the international trade committee.
in writing. ‒ we feel that the best way for international trade to proceed is for nation states to agree deals with each other, not for the eu to create yet more trouble in international trade with its demands. we feel that an independent britain, which is now on the horizon of being made official, will be a leader and example in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contains parliament’s reaction to the commission’s ‘trade for all’ communication on its future trade policy. it also reaffirms parliament’s previous recommendations on the ttip and tisa negotiations. while not providing specific details, the report aims to set down general principles for eu trade policy. i welcome the fact that several of my socialist group’s priorities were included into the report, including our commitment to a multilateral approach in the first instance, as well as our desire to see enforceable sustainable development chapters in trade agreements. furthermore, we want the ttip transparency initiative extended to all negotiations, and underline the need for further debate on the proposed investment court system.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it contains parliament’s reaction to the commission’s ‘trade for all’ communication on future trade policy. it welcomes the communication and supports a shift towards value-based trade whilst insisting that the commission must deliver on its promises.
in writing. ‒ this report amounts to business as usual for the commission. there is growing concern amongst europe’s citizens with regard to the eu’s trade and investment policies and this report was an opportunity to address some of these concerns. that opportunity has been missed and i accordingly voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it contains parliament’s reaction to the commission’s ‘trade for all’ communication on its future trade policy. it welcomes the communication as a significant shift towards value-based trade but insists that the commission must deliver on its promises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which sets down general principles and guidelines for eu trade policy without going into detail on specific areas.
in writing. ‒ we feel that the best way for international trade to proceed is for nation states to agree deals with each other, not for the eu to create yet more trouble in international trade with its demands. we feel that an independent britain, which is now on the horizon of being made official, will be a leader and example in this regard.
in writing. ‒ we feel that the best way for international trade to proceed is for nation states to agree deals with each other, not for the eu to create yet more trouble in international trade with its demands. we feel that an independent britain, which is now on the horizon of being made official, will be a leader and example in this regard.
in writing. ‒ we feel that the best way for international trade to proceed is for nation states to agree deals with each other, not for the eu to create yet more trouble in international trade with its demands. we feel that an independent britain, which is now on the horizon of being made official, will be a leader and example in this regard.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report which lays out the european parliament’s reaction to the commission’s future trade policy communication on ‘trade for all’. i am pleased to see that so many of the priorities of socialist meps have made it into the report: from a commitment to the multilateral approach, as a first and best option, to a desire to see enforceable sustainable development chapters in trade agreements, and the notion that trade may work for ordinary people only when paired with the right flanking measures, in relation to social policy, education and public investment to name a few.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains parliament’s reaction to the commission’s ‘trade for all’ communication on its future trade policy. it welcomes the communication as a significant shift towards value-based trade in line with our group’s position but insists that the commission must deliver on its promises. the report reaffirms parliament’s previous recommendations on the ttip and tisa negotiations. since it is a horizontal report it does not prejudge any final position by our group on any particular trade agreement.
in writing. – the resolution sets down general principles and guidelines for eu trade policy. i voted in favour as i believe these principles are in line with the principles that my labour colleagues and i share, such as reaffirming that commitment to the multilateral approach is the first best option; that enforceable sustainable development chapters should be added in trade agreements; that the eu needs to focus increasingly on implementation of concluded agreements; and that the european parliament wants the ttip transparency initiative extended to all negotiations. the resolution also emphasises that labour and environmental standards must be respected throughout the supply chain and reaffirms that trade only delivers for ordinary people when paired with the right flanking measures (such as social policy, education, public investment).
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative report. we are strong supporters of any measures to combat the trafficking of people, however we do not support the european union taking actions on these measures. the free movement of people and schengen has contributed to an increase in people trafficking within the eu. we think it is hypocritical of the eu to discuss measures outside of the eu when it refuses to acknowledge this. however out of respect for the sensitivity of the subject and our support for measures to combat it we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report has some commendable aspects; it calls for cooperation in combatting human trafficking, it is strong on the impact for women and children, calls on the eu to do more to find missing refugees, etc. however, the inclusion of calls for greater eu military presence in the mediterranean, claims that exploitation does not occur in transit countries, some questionable suggestions regarding refugees, and calls for an eu cross-border labour mechanism, make the report impossible to support. therefore, on this basis, i abstained on the final roll-call vote.
in writing. ‒ i support most of the aims and objectives of this report, but not all should fall within the european union’s sphere of responsibility. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative report. we are strong supporters of any measures to combat the trafficking of people, however we do not support the european union taking actions on these measures. the free movement of people and schengen has contributed to an increase in people trafficking within the eu. we think it is hypocritical of the eu to discuss measures outside of the eu when it refuses to acknowledge this. however out of respect for the sensitivity of the subject and our support for measures to combat it we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report. there is an urgent need to tackle human trafficking. it is one of the worst forms of human rights abuses and affects millions of people worldwide. i have worked on this issue for several years and i’m sure that my constituents in wales would expect me to support action to protect the victims, and ensure the prosecution of perpetrators. this is best done on a european level.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i voted for, condemns all forms of human trafficking and addresses challenges linked to it, such as migration, modern information technology and lack of legislation. the report underlines the links between trafficking in migrants and trafficking in human beings. the report further recommends enhanced cooperation with third countries and highlights the importance of using existing instruments to prevent and combat human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ the trafficking of human beings is a scandal in the twenty-first century affecting millions of people worldwide. eu cooperation has a vital role in tackling this issue and this report makes a number of important recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it condemns all forms of human trafficking and addresses challenges linked to it, such as migration, modern information technology or lack of legislation. it makes clear recommendations, encouraging enhanced cooperation with third countries and pointing out the importance of all existing instruments to prevent and combat human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which condemns all forms of human trafficking and addresses challenges linked to it, such as migration, modern information technology or lack of legislation. the report highlights the link between trafficking in migrants and trafficking in human beings. the rapporteur makes clear recommendations, encouraging enhanced cooperation with third countries and pointing out the importance of all existing instruments to prevent and combat human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative report. we are strong supporters of any measures to combat the trafficking of people, however we do not support the european union taking actions on these measures. the free movement of people and schengen has contributed to an increase in people trafficking within the eu. we think it is hypocritical of the eu to discuss measures outside of the eu when it refuses to acknowledge this. however out of respect for the sensitivity of the subject and our support for measures to combat it we abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative report. we are strong supporters of any measures to combat the trafficking of people, however we do not support the european union taking actions on these measures. the free movement of people and schengen has contributed to an increase in people trafficking within the eu. we think it is hypocritical of the eu to discuss measures outside of the eu when it refuses to acknowledge this. however out of respect for the sensitivity of the subject and our support for measures to combat it we abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative report. we are strong supporters of any measures to combat the trafficking of people, however we do not support the european union taking actions on these measures. the free movement of people and schengen has contributed to an increase in people trafficking within the eu. we think it is hypocritical of the eu to discuss measures outside of the eu when it refuses to acknowledge this. however out of respect for the sensitivity of the subject and our support for measures to combat it we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which condemns all forms of human trafficking and addresses challenges linked to it, such as migration, modern information technology and lack of legislation. the report highlights the link between trafficking in migrants and trafficking in human beings. i am pleased to see that the rapporteur has made clear recommendations, which encourage enhanced cooperation with third countries, and that the report points out the importance of all the existing instruments for preventing and combating human trafficking.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – madam president, my thanks to the two rapporteurs. as you said, i am speaking as the rapporteur for afet (committee on foreign affairs), and we are largely concerned with heading 4, which focuses on the eu’s external action and within which the biggest crisis has occurred. the problems, from ukraine through syria to libya, are not going to be resolved overnight. at the same time, the ongoing turbulence in africa and elsewhere will be detrimental to our own future security, and the consequences of climate change are plain for all to see. we have seen a spike in natural disasters across the world. that is why our committee wants a genuine revision that increases heading 4, to raise the ceilings for both payments and commitment appropriations, and the creation of a permanent crisis reserve, to address the short-term crisis without cutting into the long-term policies that are vital for addressing the root causes. so in these turbulent times i think it is really vital that the eu stands for its values as the world’s largest aid donor, supporting the most vulnerable globally. one lesson from the uk referendum is that many see the eu’s inability to resolve the global crisis as a problem, so i would really urge all, the council and commission, to address this as soon as possible by increasing heading 4.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, i would first like very much to welcome this report, which recognises a number of the difficult issues that we are facing right now with the current multiannual financial framework (mff) and the need to look at a revision of the current mff. from the women’s rights committee’s perspective, i also welcome that there is specific reference in this document to the need to recognise gender and the importance of gender budgeting in the work of the mff and the revision and review processes, because it is clear that without measurement we cannot determine the outcomes. from our perspective, that is a very welcome element to the report that we have today.
madam president, much has changed since the start of the multiannual financial framework. the european union has changed, the issues have changed, the world has changed and indeed it makes sense that you would want to make sure that you plan for that. there is of course this underlying question with regard to brexit. i have heard the word brexit mentioned time and again in this debate because it is going to impact on everything that is to come. i speak to constituents on a daily basis who are terrified that our government will fail to respect the result of the referendum. they think that it is a delaying tactic for british politicians to try to wriggle out of the result. but ‘no’ of course must mean ‘no’, and brexit of course must mean brexit. but until the government actually triggers article 50, uncertainty is going to continue everywhere. how can you plan for brexit until negotiations begin and until article 50 is triggered? the british government needs to hurry up, it needs to get a prime minister chosen and it needs to start the process. we all need certainty. for any kind of planning – how the eu 27 want to go about budgeting and organisation – you need certainty. until we have that certainty, the uk continues to be bound by what happens here. so the longer this situation continues, the worse it will be for both parties, for the united kingdom as much as for the european union. so my message to the conservative party is this: get on with it.
madam president, with or without brexit, the eu budget needed reform. we should be spending more of the eu budget on creating growth and jobs. so, for example, we should be spending more of the budget on structural funds to create investment in infrastructure and training projects. we should be supporting the continuation of the youth employment initiative, as youth unemployment remains a scandal right across the european union. we should also be supporting more investment in innovation, research and development for our businesses and for our universities. now is not the time to reduce funding which can improve our economy. we also need a more flexible budget to deal with crises as they arise. for example, the refugee crisis has been mentioned, but also we have a crisis because of brexit. there is no doubt that regions across the eu will now face a cut in funding because of that. finally, i would say, although there is no appetite in the commission or the council for major reforms of the mff, we should take this opportunity to seek reform.
madam president, like it or not, if a nation wishes to provide shared public services such as schools, hospitals and security through its armed services and its police, it needs to raise income. it does that through taxation. the people who pay that taxation demand two things: they demand fairness from those who pay the taxation, but they also demand that the governments who spend that money be fiscally responsible. clearly, my nation has decided to vote to leave the european union on the basis of the second point. it did not believe that the european union was fiscally responsible. we want to have a trade arrangement with the european union because it is in our nation’s interest, and your nations’ interest, to have a thriving global economy that has taxation clearly at its heart. so we say, when you look at this report, do not tax yourself out of competition with the world. you need to have a taxation system that is fair but competitive with the rest of the world. look into this report, because some of it is going to make europe less competitive and ultimately drive down your economies, and we don’t want that at all.
mr president, during the campaign in my country for the eu referendum, one issue that was raised was tax evasion. people asked ‘why do i pay an increasing amount of tax while the multinationals pay very little? it is unfair and it is completely unethical. why does the european union not deal with this?’ that is why i welcome the proposals in this report, and my congratulations go to the rapporteurs, jeppe kofod and michael theurer. i especially support the proposals on the need for a clear list of tax havens and for a legal framework to protect whistle-blowers and prevent tax advisers from setting up tax-avoidance structures. we really have to ask the commission and the member states to demonstrate, in the forthcoming legislation, the same level of ambition as parliament has demonstrated. personal tax, i know, is a member state competence, and i support that. however, corporation tax avoidance can be addressed only if we work together. therefore, the onus is on the eu to address this. the issue was strongly misrepresented by the leave side, claiming that what we were discussing was personal tax. i think it is really important that we explain what we are doing here and that what we are trying to address is what many europeans feel very angry about, namely that in one state the multinationals exploit lower taxes, while they make all their money in another state. i really welcome these proposals. i hope they will be implemented as soon as possible.
on behalf of the efdd group. – [...] legislation is intended to give the european union greater powers to control member states’ external borders. it wants to replace frontex with the european border and coast guard agency. this will require more staff, funding and equipment. the new agency will have a mandate to send liaison officers to launch joint operations and operate in the territories of member states and third countries, and of course it will require a great deal of money. it has an estimated cost of eur 238 million in 2016, rising to eur 322 million by 2020. the united kingdom is not bound by this legislation, but even so, as long as the uk remains a member of the eu, british taxpayers will be liable to help bear the financial cost. this legislation compromises the national sovereignty of participating member states, but it will not succeed in controlling the migrant crisis on europe’s borders so long as the schengen area continues to exist. there are good reasons why people are fleeing africa and the middle east, but a major factor in attracting them to europe is that they know that once they enter one european country, they will have free access to other european countries in the schengen area. the first step to controlling the migrant crisis is to abolish the schengen area.
mr president, whilst the uk has not fully signed up to the frontex agency, or indeed the new border and coast guard, it has played an active and supportive role in the agency’s operations over the years and i very much hope this relationship can continue. i have long been a supporter of the work of the agency and, like others in this house, i have called many times for it to take a stronger role with an enhanced mandate. a resilient and well—managed external border benefits all european countries. it protects freedom of movement, the schengen area and – crucially – public confidence. greater communication between the agency and national authorities, an efficient returns system and an emphasis on preparedness and prevention are crucial ingredients in bringing much needed stability to our present crisis. here we have a good result, and i extend my congratulations to the rapporteur and all involved. i hope this regulation is another step towards making the eu’s response in the area of asylum and migration both credible and effective.
mr president, this piece of proposed european union legislation concerning a european border and coast guard system is interesting, since – as ever – it has been constructed to deal with the consequences of an eu decision and action and does not actually address the root cause. the latter, of course, would require a u-turn, which is not likely. however, we are where we are. and it is important that the united kingdom recognises that, while we will not be bound by the legislation nor indeed even directly affected, we will be contributing to the estimated eur 230 million project, regardless of the outcome of the brexit vote. this whole concept has value and i appreciate the value, but the value is going to be even more important to two areas. the first is that of the people smugglers, a business now worth an estimated eur 16 billion. they are going to have confidence that their activities will not result in as many deaths at sea or on the balkans route. the second is among the potential migrants who will perceive less risk in making perilous journeys, be it over the mediterranean or on the other, mountainous, routes. by default, a border and coast guard system should not become a maritime and land-based rescue system yet, in the current climate, this seems to be exactly what the proposition is. i only urge that the rapporteur please listen to my comments and take them on board.
madam president, overall this proposal on the european border and coast guard agency is a balanced and important framework for improving external border management and helping to uphold human rights and international law. it is critical that the agency is properly supported and enabled to coordinate operations and mobilise resources. in doing so, it can help protect refugees in distress and facilitate the movement of goods and people within the eu and across borders. as a member of parliament’s committee on transport and tourism, i am confident, following our debates, that the agency will take account of the need for good transport logistics and infrastructure links across borders, including in relation to maritime routes. in these difficult times we must not forget the socio-economic benefits of our eu policies in promoting a connected europe – and the added accountability of the agency to parliament and member states through this proposal is welcome. furthermore, whatever happens next with the legal and political future of the uk within our shared continent, it is essential we engage constructively with a valuable collective endeavour such as this one.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, cyber-security is a real issue. cyber-crime knows no borders and international cooperation is needed. this report will help eu countries to work together to prevent and detect network disruptions in critical infrastructure like banking, energy and air traffic control. member states will set up their own expert teams, share early warnings of risks and learn from each other’s experiences. national security will not be compromised, as member states will not be forced to disclose sensitive information. online companies were concerned about bureaucracy if they needed to report the same incident 28 different times, so we have a light-touch, common approach agreed to address this. it has been an extremely complex and sensitive negotiation, which has taken three years to agree. as we negotiate our new uk-eu relationship, i hope space and time will be given for us to continue to work together, when necessary, on security issues such as this.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank ms gräßle, the rapporteur, most sincerely for the effort she has put into bringing this proposal to the debate tonight. we tabled it on 4 march at the commission and it is indeed an exceptionally fast development for us, the three institutions, to have reached our common objective. i was with the supervisory committee yesterday, and i would like to convey the gratitude of the chair of the supervisory committee and all its members for the action that is being taken with regard to the objective of this proposal, and it will strengthen the independence of olaf’s supervisory committee by very clearly separating the secretariat of the committee and its budget from the service that they have a mandate to supervise. i want to stress that the supervisory committee has been very active, and the chair and the members of the supervisory committee have been exercising their authority. we do not have material evidence that the independence of the committee has been undermined, but even the perception of interference in their independence is of course a source of concern. we have listened very carefully to the members of parliament and to the members of the supervisory committee to make sure that we are coming with a clear solution to what has been perceived as a potential restriction of their independence. we have already placed the budget of the supervisory committee with the commission’s payment office (pmo), and what we are proposing, to put it in very practical terms, is that we are now attaching the secretariat to the pmo as of the date of application of the amended regulation. this attachment will be of a purely administrative nature in order to facilitate the organisational and budgetary aspects. it will not affect the independent functioning of the secretariat, or of the committee, nor their current budget and staffing. to be sure that this is entirely clarified, it has been agreed that the commission will make a statement to this end tomorrow, ahead of the vote on this proposal. so again, i would like to express the determination of the commission to do everything we can for an institution as important as olaf and its supervisory committee to be entirely supported in undertaking their work independently.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, it is of course absolutely right and fundamental that the anti—fraud office should always be impartial. it is of course something which must have the greatest possible credibility. therefore, it is right that it must be independent and that its secretariat must be independent. for once in this place, i have to say that the committee amendments seem to have the most positive intention: to try to make sure that it is absolutely clear that it must be so, and to say that the commission shall not interfere with the monitoring functions of the supervisory committee. so i think there is a lot that is positive in that. whether or not that goes far enough, and whether or not we can be absolutely crystal clear about independence and no interference, of that i am not quite so sure.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, much has been said over the last two weeks regarding the referendum in the united kingdom. things have been said in the heat of the moment, strong feelings have been expressed on all sides, and emotions have been running high. all this has been understandable. as you know, i supported britain’s membership of the european union and i had hoped for a different result. but we have a clear decision, and it is a decision that must be respected. we now need to move on. prime minister, the slovak presidency of the council comes at a critical time. your government has a crucial role to play in re-setting the terms of the debate and looking forwards, not back. as we consider the future, we should bear in mind the words of her majesty the queen, speaking just a few days ago. she said this: ‘one hallmark of leadership in such a fast-moving world is allowing sufficient room for quiet thinking and contemplation, which can in turn enable deeper, cooler consideration of how challenges and opportunities can best be addressed’. as we look ahead, we need that deeper, cooler consideration in our reflections on the future of the european union and its relationship with the united kingdom. we need to reflect on the meaning of the referendum and how it expresses not just the concerns of the british people, but concerns felt by millions across the continent. many want an effective european union, but they want a limited european union. that is the kind of reform that my group will continue to champion. discussions will shortly begin on the united kingdom’s departure from the union. we should be conscious that we are not simply discussing a technocratic withdrawal agreement; we are laying the foundations of a new relationship between the uk and the eu. in the united kingdom, we must maintain our best traditions of internationalism. the country i know and love is tolerant and welcoming, and this must not change. i deplore the racist and xenophobic actions of a small minority that we have recently witnessed. while britain has chosen to leave the european union, it has not voted to leave behind its traditional values of decency and of respect for all those who live amongst us and who make such a positive contribution to our country. in so many areas, we share mutual interests such as developing a thriving global economy, fighting terrorism and promoting a cleaner environment. so whilst the discussions will be detailed and complex, let us all approach them in a positive and constructive spirit. let us build a renewed partnership between the united kingdom and the european union based on our shared values, our history of cooperation and our long-standing friendships.
mr president, prime minister, this presidency will be a pivotal one for the european institutions. not only do you have important work on economic growth and stability, but much has to be done to resolve the challenges posed by migration flows into and across europe. however, you also face the challenge of the results of the referendum in the united kingdom. in a europe which has been dominated by stories of those fleeing war in syria and iraq, this has been a remarkable exercise in democracy. we now need to lift our eyes to negotiating a settlement. hardened rhetoric and hollowed-out positions, from which we carp at each other, will simply not help. i hope your presidency, prime minister, will focus on finding real solutions, solutions that help us trade, cooperate and build a better, more secure future for all of our people. if you are able to expedite this process, then your country will indeed have played a pivotal role at this crucial time.
mr president, slovakia is taking over the reins of the council for the first time in very turbulent times. i wish prime minister fico every success, but one low-hanging fruit is the money market funds file. this file needs to be concluded quickly, especially in the current context, given the importance of these funds in addressing systemic risks and short-term financing of the economy. it will be a real feather in your cap, mr fico, if we can conclude on this where very many other presidencies have failed. i may be a british mep but i am a committed european and i want to ensure that the eu can move forward. learning from the recent events in the uk, i would suggest three points. firstly, you rightly said it is important that the eu tackles its communication problems. the uk referendum shows the power of lies and exaggeration to sway rational people easily. however, it is important to recognise that many across europe are feeling left behind. so the eu has to deliver by doing more on education and skills. many of those who voted ‘leave’ in the uk were frustrated by the effects of globalisation, so intensive programmes preparing people for this new world, which is developing at the speed of sound, should be a high priority. secondly, it is critical that you reform what is not working, and let us start with the council. the eu is blamed for a crisis, from the economy to employment to migration, when it is member states which block decisive and collective action, failing to implement what has been agreed. the eu is often depicted as centralised and strong, but the truth is, it is weak and fragmented. lastly, listen to the young people, 75% of whom voted in the uk to remain in the future. they are the future and make sure they have a say over it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the report on the annual work programme lets us – the elected politicians – set out our priorities and expectations of the commission, and my group in the ecr tabled a very detailed resolution touching on every policy theme of work that we do here in parliament. more investment in industry, in research and development, and advancing the digital market would strengthen the economy, and create more jobs and growth. on migration and the refugee crisis, we want to work to help the most vulnerable, but also ensure that national governments have a final say. we want to support our fishermen and farmers, remove red tape from businesses large and small, and give european taxpayers value for money. in the joint resolution there was much i could agree with but, unfortunately, in negotiations the left called for more eu taxes, increases to the eu budget and mandatory targets for migration, and my group could not agree to these issues. on brexit: in the past few weeks, i have spoken to thousands of people. those voting ‘remain’ did so for economic and political stability, but those voting ‘leave’ said they felt that the eu was out of touch and undemocratic. they spoke of these five presidents they had not elected; they saw high unemployment on the edges of the euro area and feared it would spread; many of them felt the pressure of migration on their own local communities. ‘leave’ won and we need to respect that, but please do listen to those real concerns. i hope a new relationship will be found that is mutually beneficial to both sides, that minimises the economic uncertainty – not just in the uk, but across the continent too – and allows us to continue to work on vital issues like security. but it is going to take time and space and calm, cool heads to rebuild that trust. i hope we will find that time and space in the year ahead.
madam president, is it in order for people who are not meps and therefore cannot defend themselves to be described as rats, as mr verhofstadt described boris johnson and the british prime minister yesterday? is that in order?
madam president, on amendment 38 to the motion for a resolution on the commission work programme tabled by the gue/ngl group, it states in the original english version: ‘notes and respects the fact that the people of the north of ireland and scotland voted to remain in the eu’. there is no such legal or political entity as the north of ireland. the correct term is northern ireland, as in ‘the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland’. it is important that texts tabled in this parliament adhere to legal correctness. i would therefore request that when amendments are tabled which are not legally correct they are ruled inadmissible.
madam president, i am making a point of order to ensure that in the future ‘northern ireland’ is properly adhered to at all times in this house.
in writing. – we do not support the expansion of eu programmes and the further transfer of european taxpayers’ money to third countries, in particular through the european neighbourhood policy. as such we voted against giving consent to this procedure.
in writing. ‒ this was a single vote on consent on the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement and framework agreement between the eu and azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of azerbaijan in all current and future programmes. the exact choice of these programmes (in the fields of education, culture, research, energy, etc.) will be decided between the two parties according to their mutual interests, after the consent of the european parliament. the 2014 progress report by the commission adopted last year stated that ‘the democratic and human rights environment significantly deteriorated in 2014’ in azerbaijan. since then, no noticeable progress was achieved. many ngos closed their office or significantly reduced their activity due to the political and repressive legislation against hr activists. recommendations from the organisation for security and co-operation in europe (osce) on electoral legislation still await implementation, as do rulings of the european court of human rights (echr). there are legal restrictions to freedom of the press and right of association, as well as the criminalisation of defamation, and other human rights issues, which is not in line with international law. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep it was consistent for me to vote against this legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ we do not support the expansion of eu programmes and the further transfer of european taxpayers’ money to third countries, in particular through the european neighbourhood policy. as such we voted against giving consent to this procedure..
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as the framework agreement which is under consideration aims to promote cooperation in sectors of industry and foster people-to-people contacts which should be beneficial for society.
in writing. ‒ we do not support the expansion of eu programmes and the further transfer of european taxpayers’ money to third countries, in particular through the european neighbourhood policy. as such we voted against giving consent to this procedure..
in writing. ‒ we do not support the expansion of eu programmes and the further transfer of european taxpayers’ money to third countries, in particular through the european neighbourhood policy. as such we voted against giving consent to this procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as the framework agreement which is under consideration aims to promote cooperation in sectors of industry and foster people-to-people contacts which should be beneficial for society.
in writing. – ukip meps voted against, because this is not the best use of hard-pressed taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i believe that any budget surplus should be returned to the member states, not put to an alternative use.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this. draft amending budget (dab2) reduces member state contributions for 2016 as a result of the surplus from 2015, and is unaffected by the recent uk referendum.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which reduces member state contributions for 2016 and is unaffected by the uk’s decision to leave the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget as it is intended to enter in the budget 2016 the surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget year 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which reduces member state contributions for 2016 and is unaffected by the uk’s decision to leave the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against, because this is not the best use of hard-pressed taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against, because this is not the best use of hard-pressed taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget today which is intended to enter in the budget 2016 the surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget of 2015. this is provided for in the financial regulation applicable to the generation budget of the union. the surplus of the 2015 budget shows eur 1 349 116 813.74. because this is therefore considered as revenue for the 2016 budget, reducing the contributions of member states. as it reduces member state contributions for 2016, this is not affected by the uk’s referendum result indicating a wish to leave the eu.
madam president, a few days ago, during the referendum, we published a letter together with the leaders of the two official campaigns, demanding that the future government not change the rights of european citizens in the united kingdom. millions of people from different european countries have spent years putting all their energy and effort into a country which has always welcomed them, and that is how it should continue to be. when i read the newspapers on this side of the channel, it seems that the united kingdom has chosen to sever all ties with its neighbours and to turn its eyes away from the affairs of the old continent. your honours, quite the opposite. we have voted for a future in which the united kingdom is involved in the affairs of all the continents, including europe; a future that is more global and willing to break down trade barriers across the globe. you can always count on us. we simply want to pass our own laws and continue to live and work together with our allies in europe, but once again as an independent country.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive obliges member states to create their own national strategy, specific to their own needs, for network and information security. it is up to the member state to appoint a national competent authority and designate a national point of contact for european cooperation. furthermore, the directive obliges information gathering organisations and operators of essential services, such as banks and health organisations, to immediately report security breaches to the designated national competent authority. this is a welcome new departure. as this proposal marks a step in the right direction in terms of information security, i voted in favour of this directive.
in writing. ‒ this was approved without a vote; had there been such a vote, i would have abstained or voted against.
in writing. ‒ given the growing threat that cyber-attacks can now pose to national and international infrastructure, as recognised in the uk with the new national cyber centre, i welcome this report’s conclusion and am happy to support it. it backs up the domestic actions and priorities of the uk government at a european level, particularly in establishing basic requirements for resilience against cyber-attack for critical infrastructure, such as power stations and air traffic control, while also setting down minimum security levels for digital service providers.
in writing. ‒ the nis directive will improve cyber-security capabilities in member states. it will improve their cooperation in this field and require different operators of essential services in important sectors of society, as well as providers of key digital services, to take appropriate security measures and report incidents to national authorities. the nis directive represents the first eu-wide legislation on cyber-security and it will improve security in the eu online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses alike.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive as it represents the first eu-wide legislation on cybersecurity and it will improve security in the eu online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses alike.
in writing. ‒ the nis directive will improve cybersecurity capabilities in member states. it will improve their cooperation in this field and require different operators of essential services in important sectors of society, as well as providers of key digital services, to take appropriate security measures and report incidents to national authorities. the nis directive represents the first eu-wide legislation on cyber-security and it will improve security in the eu online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses alike.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the network and information security (nis) directive will improve cybersecurity capabilities in member states. it will improve their cooperation in this field and require different operators of essential services in important sectors of society, as well as providers of key digital services, to take appropriate security measures and report incidents to national authorities. the nis directive represents the first eu-wide legislation on cyber-security and it will improve security in the eu’s online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses alike.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with updating the energy efficiency labelling directive which was adopted in 2010. the commission has proposed its revision, this time as a regulation to take effect in january 2017. one of the key reasons for this update is that the a-g energy efficiency scale label for consumers has become over-complicated, confusing and therefore misleading for consumers. at the top end (a category) there are several sub-categories (a+, a++, a+++) which under this revision will be removed to simplify the labelling so consumers can understand them better. this will also be an incentive to manufacturers to achieve the a category of energy efficiency labelling. the original a-g energy scale will be restored and the same green to red colouring scheme will be retained. therefore, as the provisions help to simplify matters for consumers, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i support sensible labelling of products, but i believe that such matters should be decided by the member states. i note that there were a lot of positives to this report. i voted against the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to build an energy union with a forward-looking energy and climate policy. energy efficiency is a crucial element of a strategy to tackle climate change. an effective energy efficiency labelling policy will provide consumers with key information as to products’ impact on the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to build an energy union with a forward-looking energy and climate policy. energy efficiency is a crucial element of a strategy to tackle climate change. an effective energy efficiency labelling policy will provide consumers with key information as to products’ impact on the environment.
in writing. ‒ parliament’s position on this proposal is disappointingly weak, although there are important elements in it for europe’s consumers. i abstained with my group and hope that satisfactory legislation can emerge from the trialogue discussions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it aims to update and make more effective the existing acquis on energy labelling.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to build an energy union with a forward-looking energy and climate policy. in my view energy efficiency is a crucial element of a strategy to tackle climate change. an effective energy efficiency labelling policy will provide and has provided citizens with a deeper understanding of the products’ impact on the environment and of their life-cycle. the evaluation of directive 2010/30/ec highlighted a number of deficits. and addressing them could lead to an important step towards additional energy savings.
in writing. – ukip mep’s have voted against this legislative report. ukip oppose the further expansion of powers for the eu to control external borders. similarly, we also believe that the setting up of the ebcg will prove to be an incredibly costly project for the european taxpayer to fund. ukip principally supports the right for sovereign nations to control their own borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which was incredibly negative and contained some very disconcerting provisions. the commission proposal gives the impression of a coast guard that will save lives of people in danger at sea. so far this year over 3 000 people have died in the mediterranean while trying to come to europe. many others have been deported to turkey or turned back at borders. rather than taking the necessary measures to avoid these tragedies, such as creating safe and legal pathways for refugees into europe through humanitarian visas and complying with international law, instead we see frontex being turned into the new european border and coast guard agency. what is particularly alarming in the commission’s proposal is that the agency will be able to intervene in different member states to close borders, even without the consent of the state concerned. it will take migrants’ fingerprints and other personal data – treating them like criminals. it’s fundamentally a deportation agency, sending people back to bombs and starvation so that they do not set foot in ‘fortress europe’. this is one more step in the racist policy direction that the european union has been engaging in for too long.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i do not believe in the principle of a european border and coast guard.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip oppose the further expansion of powers for the eu to control external borders. similarly, we also believe that the setting up of the ebcg will prove to be an incredibly costly project for the european taxpayer to fund. ukip principally supports the right for sovereign nations to control their own borders.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour colleagues, i voted in favour of this report and i support efforts to strengthen the eu’s external border. the ongoing refugee crisis has placed migration policy firmly under the microscope. it is imperative that efforts are made to improve managed migration to europe, but, crucially, it must be done in a way that is organised and compassionate.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour colleagues, i voted in favour of this report and i support efforts to strengthen the eu’s external border. the ongoing refugee crisis has placed migration policy firmly under the microscope. it is imperative that efforts are made to improve managed migration to europe, but, crucially, it must be done in a way that is organised and compassionate.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support strengthening the eu’s external border. in light of the ongoing refugee crisis it is essential that efforts are made to improve managed migration to europe in an organised and compassionate manner.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support strengthening the eu’s external border. in light of the ongoing refugee crisis it is essential that efforts are made to improve managed migration to europe in an organised and compassionate manner.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip oppose the further expansion of powers for the eu to control external borders. similarly, we also believe that the setting up of the ebcg will prove to be an incredibly costly project for the european taxpayer to fund. ukip principally supports the right for sovereign nations to control their own borders.
in writing. ‒ i have long been a strong advocate of the strict protection of the external borders of the schengen area. in this context, the creation of a european border and coast guard could be a step in the right direction. however, i did not support the proposal because it contains a vaguely worded possibility for the european guard to intervene in the territory of a member state even without its consent. this is problematic for me as a member from a country that experienced the 'brotherly' assistance of the soviet union in 1968, and leads to my abstention from voting on the entire motion.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip oppose the further expansion of powers for the eu to control external borders. similarly, we also believe that the setting up of the ebcg will prove to be an incredibly costly project for the european taxpayer to fund. ukip principally supports the right for sovereign nations to control their own borders.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s external borders are in need of strengthening and i support this initiative to that end. especially in light of the ongoing refugee crisis it is essential that efforts are made to improve managed migration to europe in an organised and compassionate manner.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support strengthening the eu’s external border. in light of the ongoing refugee crisis it is essential that efforts are made to improve managed migration to europe in an organised and compassionate manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe this is a positive step forward. this new agency will be better placed to help member states ensure more effective management of the eu’s external borders. this is essential if we want to get to grips with the ongoing refugee and migration crisis and want the schengen area to work effectively. my colleagues in the s&d group have managed to ensure that the new agency has a specific mandate for supporting search and rescue operations. this will help to prevent many more needless deaths in europe’s seas
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as i believe this is a positive step forward. this new agency will be better placed to help member states ensure more effective management of the eu’s external borders. this is essential if we want to get to grips with the ongoing refugee and migration crisis and want the schengen area to work effectively. my colleagues in the s&d group have managed to ensure that the new agency has a specific mandate for supporting search and rescue operations. this will help to prevent many more needless deaths in europe’s seas.
in writing. – we are against because, despite its positive sounding title, the agency is a further eu power grab, taking sovereignty from member states.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this resolution as a further loss of sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this constructive, pragmatic proposal. it is in line with the two proposals on the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency. in addition, it provides a list of tasks and areas of cooperation which the european maritime safety agency (emsa) can deliver, and which are within the agency’s objectives.
in writing. ‒ this is a constructive and pragmatic proposal which i have voted in favour of today along with my labour colleagues in the european parliament. it is in line with the two proposals on the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, and it lists tasks and areas of cooperation which emsa (the european maritime safety agency) can realistically deliver on and are within the objectives of the agency.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as the purpose of this legislative proposal is to improve cooperation and coordination between the relevant eu agencies in order to enhance synergies between their respective services, thus allowing them to provide more efficient and cost-effective multipurpose services to national authorities carrying out coastguard functions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is a constructive and pragmatic proposal that is in line with the two proposals on the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, and lists tasks and areas of cooperation which emsa can realistically deliver and are within the agency’s objectives.
in writing. ‒ we are against because, despite its positive sounding title, the agency is a further eu power grab, taking sovereignty from member states.
in writing. ‒ we are against because, despite its positive sounding title, the agency is a further eu power grab, taking sovereignty from member states.
in writing. ‒ this is a constructive and pragmatic proposal which i have voted in favour of today along with my labour colleagues in the european parliament. it is in line with the two proposals on the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, and it is listing tasks and areas of cooperation which emsa (the european maritime safety agency) can realistically deliver on and are within the objectives of the agency.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal as it is a constructive and pragmatic proposal that is in line with the two proposals on the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency. furthermore, it lists tasks and areas of cooperation which emsa can realistically deliver and are within the agency’s objectives.
in writing. – labour meps supported this proposal as it is a constructive and pragmatic proposal that is in line with the two proposals on the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, and lists tasks and areas of cooperation which emsa can realistically deliver and are within the agency’s objectives.
in writing. – we are against because, despite its innocuous, even heart-warming, sounding title, the agency is a further eu power grab, taking sovereignty from member states.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the ‘coast guard package’, which aims to change and enhance the powers of the agencies of maritime safety, fisheries control and management of operational cooperation at the external borders, in terms of borders control and coast guard. this means that all agencies, eu and member-states bodies that somehow are related to maritime issues shall contribute to frontex goals. the report and draft regulation assumes that while promoting collaboration and cooperation between authorities that perform coast guard activities, this proposal is coherent with union policies in terms of migration, transports and mobility. this in no manner or form improves the lives and conditions of fisheries workers or the sustainability of fish stocks. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i believe that fisheries should be a national matter and not one for the european union to determine.
in writing. ‒ this proposal enables the three agencies to support national authorities to take effective joint action, particularly in relation to control, security and surveillance operations. in addition, it allows for the agencies to provide national authorities with information, equipment and training. for these reasons i supported this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this proposal enables the three agencies to support national authorities to take effective joint action, particularly in relation to control, security and surveillance operations. in addition, it allows for the agencies to provide national authorities with information, equipment and training. for these reasons i supported this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it enables the three agencies to support national authorities to take effective joint action, particularly in relation to control, security and surveillance operations
in writing. ‒ the proposal enables the three agencies to support national authorities to take effective joint action, particularly in relation to control, security and surveillance operations. furthermore, the proposal allows for the agencies to provide national authorities with information, equipment and training.
in writing. ‒ we are against because, despite its innocuous, even heart-warming, sounding title, the agency is a further eu power grab, taking sovereignty from member states.
in writing. ‒ we are against because, despite its innocuous, even heart-warming, sounding title, the agency is a further eu power grab, taking sovereignty from member states.
in writing. ‒ this proposal enables the three agencies to support national authorities to take effective joint action, particularly in relation to control, security and surveillance operations. hence, i have joined my fellow colleagues in the socialists and democrats group today to support this legislative report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which enables the three agencies to support national authorities to take effective joint action, particularly in relation to control, security and surveillance operations. furthermore, the proposal allows for the agencies to provide national authorities with information, equipment and training.
in writing. – national authorities that carry out coastguard functions are responsible for a large number of tasks in areas as wide-ranging as maritime safety, security, search and rescue, border controls, customs checks, environmental protection and law enforcement in general. there are currently 316 such national authorities across the european union, which cooperate with one another using some 70 different structures. under this proposal, maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations will be coordinated at eu level in order to improve maritime awareness and support operations that are consistent and cost-effective. i voted in favour of this report because it enables the three main agencies (european fisheries control agency, european maritime safety agency and european border and coast guard agency) to support national authorities to take effective joint action, particularly in relation to control, security and surveillance operations. furthermore, the proposal allows for the agencies to provide national authorities with information, equipment and training.
in writing. – ukip voted against this first reading legislative proposal. while we certainly share huge concern over the actions and independence of olaf in its current form, we do not believe that handing over administrative control of its supervisory committee to the eu commission is the answer. both staff appointments and budgetary control will be managed by the commission who are hardly neutral and we have serious concerns that this will lead to more political interference in the activities and investigations of olaf.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with the role of the supervisory committee and its secretariat as to the control of the work of olaf. olaf and the supervisory committee have been in a continuous fight for the past years. one of the complaints of the sc was that it couldn’t do its work properly because of obstructions from olaf’s side. another issue has been the position of the secretariat of the sc, being financially and in staff matters dependent on olaf. the amended regulation aims to strengthen the independence of the secretariat from olaf. there is an overall consensus to make the secretariat financially and in hr matters separately from olaf, which could help the functioning of the sc and create a much more needed independence. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ whilst i opposed this resolution overall, i believe that the committee amendments were moving in the correct direction and therefore i supported them.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this first reading legislative proposal. while we certainly share huge concern over the actions and independence of olaf in its current form, we do not believe that handing over administrative control of its supervisory committee to the eu commission is the answer. both staff appointments and budgetary control will be managed by the commission who are hardly neutral and we have serious concerns that this will lead to more political interference in the activities and investigations of olaf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which is a move towards further transparency. the aim is to strengthen the interdependence of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat, which will help provide a more effective functioning of the supervisory committee. efficient working relations between olaf and the supervisory committee will help protect eu financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which is a move towards further transparency. the aim is to strengthen the interdependence of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat, which will help provide a more effective functioning of the supervisory committee. efficient working relations between olaf and the supervisory committee will help protect eu financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as we need efficient working relations between olaf and the supervisory committee for the protection of eu financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as we need efficient working relations between olaf and the supervisory committee for the protection of eu financial interests.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this first reading legislative proposal. while we certainly share huge concern over the actions and independence of olaf in its current form, we do not believe that handing over administrative control of its supervisory committee to the eu commission is the answer. both staff appointments and budgetary control will be managed by the commission who are hardly neutral and we have serious concerns that this will lead to more political interference in the activities and investigations of olaf.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this first reading legislative proposal. while we certainly share huge concern over the actions and independence of olaf in its current form, we do not believe that handing over administrative control of its supervisory committee to the eu commission is the answer. both staff appointments and budgetary control will be managed by the commission who are hardly neutral and we have serious concerns that this will lead to more political interference in the activities and investigations of olaf.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this proposal today whose aim is to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat which will provide a more effective functioning of the supervisory committee. it is important that we create the conditions for an efficient working relationship between olaf and the supervisory committee as it will better guarantee the protection of financial interests across europe.
madam president, last week in the brussels chamber, we saw grandstanding by sinn fein in response to the democratic decision by the british people to leave the european union – fruitless and narrow—minded politicking that has little to do with the best interests of northern ireland. sadly this week has not brought an end to these tactics. we have seen amendments lodged in parliament that falsely claim that the uk exit will render peace in northern ireland under grave threat. let me be clear. peace is not under threat. it is the will of local people supported by political agreement that sustains stability. we of course acknowledge that successive peace programmes have contributed enormously to progress in local communities and we will ensure that this money continues to get to those who need it. we will also fight hard for further sustainable funding either at european, national or regional levels for those who work so hard to build strong community relations.
in writing. – ukip meps voted against, because this will increase spending in ways which are not the best use of hard-pressed taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ while there were some positive references in this report in relation to tackling climate change and social exclusion, the negative provisions failed to mitigate the concerns i had with this report and i had no option but to abstain on this report. it is very apparent that we are in very uncertain economic times and it does not appear to be getting any better. of course brexit has, undoubtedly, created waves of uncertainty in ireland and across europe. however, we are stuck in a financial straitjacket which offers no flexibility, and what is more worrying is that there are new trends towards financial instruments without democratic accountability. the mff report references the challenges ahead, but going by the current silence of the commission, i am neither hopeful nor confident that those challenges will be addressed. it’s high time that the commission and council took a new direction and began listening to the people. they need to stop servicing banks and begin putting real investment into our people.
in writing. ‒ this report intends to increase the spending of the european union, and therefore i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote as i do not support increases in the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the uk has voted to leave and our future relationship is uncertain. our aim now is to maintain positive relationships with our european allies and not to stand in the way of their work. if we had remained a member of the eu we would have continued our fight to reform the eu budget and would have amended and voted against this report. the uk’s involvement in eu programmes is not guaranteed and neither is our budgetary contribution. this will depend upon the brexit negotiations, and it is our role as uk meps to critique the deals tabled.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against, because this will increase spending in ways which are not the best use of hard-pressed taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i consider this proposal to be an unacceptable call on the commission to introduce a mechanism of financial bonuses and malus relating to the fulfilment or non-fulfilment of the obligations of the member states under the measures adopted by the eu. this could, for example, lead to fines for not meeting non-functioning refugee quotas. that is why i voted against this point.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against, because this will increase spending in ways which are not the best use of hard-pressed taxpayers’ money.
in writing. – in a recent referendum on 23 june participating eligible voters decided by a narrow majority that the uk should leave the eu, and our future relationship is therefore uncertain. our aim now is to maintain positive relationships with our european allies and not to stand in the way of their work. as a consequence, i abstained for this report.
in writing. – the report called on the commission to act in respect of taxation. ukip regards tax as a sovereign matter for each member state and not a subject for interference by the commission: accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this non-legislative report from the special committee on tax rulings (taxe2) established in the aftermath of the luxleaks revelations. sinn féin supports a global anti-tax avoidance approach under the auspices of the united nations. we support the oecd anti-base erosion and profit shifting (beps) action plan, but do not believe that it goes far enough. effective action can be taken at european level in order to close loopholes that enable tax avoidance within the single market. the recommendations which i welcome in this report include setting up an eu public register of beneficial owners of companies and drawing up a tax havens blacklist. i also support a code of conduct for banks and tax advisers and action against the abuse of patent boxes. there were references in the non-legislative report to the planned common consolidated corporate tax base, which sinn féin opposes as we believe it will infringe on the tax sovereignty of member states. the report also failed to take a strong stance politically on the role of commission president juncker and others in the luxleaks scandal. for these reasons, sinn féin meps did not vote in favour of the report, but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i oppose the principle of a common consolidated corporate tax base, and therefore felt it necessary to vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ many of my of my constituents are rightly concerned that while they work hard and pay their taxes, multinationals are expertly avoiding theirs. we’ve had the ‘luxleaks’ and the ‘panama papers’ revelations – and it is clear that tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance are endemic cross-border problems that require a cross-border solution. this report rightly calls for protection for whistle-blowers, and for the creation of a blacklist of tax havens. furthermore, it calls for a gradual phasing-out of ‘patent box’ regimes, which, rather than providing tax incentives for conducting research and development, have facilitated tax avoidance. in addition, there must be an investigation into the role of banks and advisory firms in tax avoidance. all in all, this is an ambitious report and builds on the positive steps taken by the commission, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ many of my of my constituents are rightly concerned that while they work hard and pay their taxes, multinationals are expertly avoiding theirs. this report rightly calls for protection for whistle-blowers, and for the creation of a blacklist of tax havens. furthermore, it also calls for a gradual phasing-out of ‘patent box’ regimes, which, rather than providing tax incentives for conducting research and development, have facilitated tax avoidance. in addition, there must be an investigation into the role of banks and advisory firms in tax avoidance. all in all, this is an ambitious report that builds on the positive steps taken by the commission, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ there are good elements in this report and my party fully supports eu efforts to eliminate dubious tax practices. nevertheless, this house continues to return to issues such as a common consolidated corporate tax base, which i cannot support. i therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the taxe ii report because, following both the ‘luxleaks’ and the ‘panama papers’ revelations, it is clear that tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance are endemic cross-border problems that require a cross-border solution. while the european commission has taken positive steps to tackle this problem, much more needs to be done – and this ambitious report points the way forward.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the taxe ii report because, following both the ‘luxleaks’ and the ‘panama papers’ revelations, it is clear that tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance are endemic cross-border problems that require a cross-border solution. while the european commission has taken positive steps to tackle this problem, much more needs to be done – and this ambitious report points the way forward.
in writing. ‒ the report called on the commission to act in respect of taxation. ukip regards tax as a sovereign matter for each member state and not a subject for interference by the commission, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report called on the commission to act in respect of taxation. ukip regards tax as a sovereign matter for each member state and not a subject for interference by the commission, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ overall this report is quite progressive and, as far as i can see, should be considered a success and a brilliant follow-up to the work of the taxe 1 committee. the labour party and our sister parties across europe have been fighting for tax justice for years and this report represents a positive step. following the panama papers and the luxleaks before that, it is increasingly clear that tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance have grown to unthinkable levels. this has become an endemic cross-border problem, which requires cross-border actions and solutions. while the european commission has taken positive steps to tackle this problem, much more needs to be done and this ambitious report gives a good indication of what the way forward might look like.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it puts forward concrete proposals in order to fight tax avoidance by big multinationals, such as a common list of tax havens, sanctions for non-cooperative jurisdictions, protection for whistle-blowers, sanctions against banks, law firms and tax advisers working for such non-cooperative jurisdictions, and a binding law to prohibit the misuse of patent boxes. these recommendations result from the work of the special tax committee set up 18 months ago in the wake of the luxleaks scandal.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because it puts forward concrete proposals in order to fight tax avoidance by big multinationals, such as a common list of tax havens, sanctions for non-cooperative jurisdictions, protection for whistle-blowers, sanctions against banks, law firms and tax advisers working for such non-cooperative jurisdictions, and a binding law to prohibit the misuse of patent boxes. these recommendations result from the work of the special tax committee set up 18 months ago in the wake of the luxleaks scandal.
in writing. – we oppose the use of british taxpayers’ money to boost eu propaganda in our own, or any other country. eu regional funds have been some of the most expensive and fraud-ridden parts of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the joint motion has a number of some positive elements, including highlighting the importance of links and coordination between cohesion policy and other eu policies and funds; stating that financial instruments must be complementary to grants; calling on the commission and member states to pay greater attention to the needs of smes; and criticising some aspects of budget restraints on horizon 2020. however, the jmr also promotes some of the negative aspects still attached to eu funding, such as public-private partnerships and a call for strengthening the single market, and ignores many other important concerns. my group tabled an alternative motion, which addresses some of these issues, including: the insufficient funding available under horizon 2020; the need to prevent cohesion policy and horizon 2020 from being used for military research; and problems caused by austerity policies and fiscal constraints on authorities preventing effective co-financing of funds. therefore, while there were some positives contained within this resolution, the failure to address the key concerns meant that i was obliged to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against; i want the uk to be outside the european union and therefore i oppose this usage of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the use of british taxpayers’ money to boost eu propaganda in our own, or any other country. eu regional funds have been some of the most expensive and fraud-ridden parts of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it calls on the commission to monitor synergies between the funds systematically and to issue a communication on these synergies.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the use of british taxpayers’ money to boost eu propaganda in our own, or any other country. eu regional funds have been some of the most expensive and fraud-ridden parts of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the use of british taxpayers’ money to boost eu propaganda in our own, or any other country. eu regional funds have been some of the most expensive and fraud-ridden parts of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the resolution because it promotes the establishment of a more integrated strategic approach across eu funds and policies to counter the existing fragmented approach, identifying complementarities as well as orientations on the articulation of structural funds with other eu policies such as horizon 2020, in order to better pursue the goal of achieving a smart and sustainable growth in europe. i particularly welcome the call for paying particular attention to the need of smes.
in writing. – labour meps voted in favour of the resolution because it promotes the establishment of a more integrated strategic approach across eu funds and policies to counter the existing fragmented approach, identifying complementarities as well as orientations on the articulation of structural funds with other eu policies such as horizon 2020, in order to better pursue the goal of achieving a smart and sustainable growth in europe. i particularly welcome the call for paying particular attention to the need of smes.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution. the resolution called for more eu legislation, spending and interference in member states affairs. everything from tax, to migration, to increasing eu budgets and expanding eu military action. only elected national governments should make these decisions and set these policies in compliance with international law, not unaccountable eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the commission work programme for 2017 presented by the liberals (alde), socialists (s&d) and christian democrats (epp). there were a small number of positive proposals in the resolution such as the call for the swift introduction of a pillar of social rights. however, the majority of the proposals were aimed at deepening the pro-austerity economic governance framework, and the pro-integration agenda. the resolution accepts the european semester and the stability and growth pact rules, and calls for the completion of the economic and monetary union in the way outlined in the five presidents’ report. these proposals all aim to further deregulate financial markets and increase competition in the single market, without considering the negative impact this will have on working people and peripheral economies such as ireland’s. i also proposed an amendment to the joint motion calling for the north of ireland to be enabled to remain within the eu either by irish reunification or special arrangement. i voted in favour of an alternative resolution presented by gue/ngl which called for an alternative economic strategy based on redistributive policies that promote sustainable growth and social wellbeing.
in writing. ‒ i disagree with the principles of the direction of the commission in 2017, and therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ am 32: i do not agree with the eu-turkey deal but to say that turkey is not a ‘safe’ third country means that it can become a gateway to the eu for economic migrants and terrorists as well as genuine refugees. given the state of the migrant crisis and the two terror attacks in belgium and france we need more security not uncontrolled mass migration. am 46: whilst i agree with much of this amendment, including my total and absolute opposition to the eu army and eu missions, which do not have democratic oversight, i cannot but oppose calls for an end to strategically important uk bases in other eu countries. in particular, given the absence of aircraft carriers, our bases in cyprus are of prime strategic importance.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution. the resolution called for more eu legislation, spending and interference in member states affairs. everything from tax, to migration, to increasing eu budgets and expanding eu military action. only elected national governments should make these decisions and set these policies in compliance with international law, not unaccountable eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it recalls that europe’s economic recovery has been modest and unbalanced, with many regions of the union still experiencing unacceptable levels of unemployment, poverty, inequality and a severe lack of prospects for younger generations. therefore, the eu must work towards a dynamic and inclusive labour market embedded in the european social market economy model, improving citizens’ living conditions and enabling fair mobility.
in writing. ‒ am 32: i do not agree with the eu-turkey deal but to say that turkey is not a ‘safe’ third country means that it can become a gateway to the eu for economic migrants and terrorists as well as genuine refugees. given the state of the migrant crisis and the two terror attacks in belgium and france we need more security not uncontrolled mass migration. am 46: whilst i agree with much of this amendment, including my total and absolute opposition to the eu army and eu missions, which do not have democratic oversight, i cannot but oppose calls for an end to strategically important uk bases in other eu countries. in particular, given the absence of aircraft carriers, our bases in cyprus are of prime strategic importance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it recalls that europe’s economic recovery has been modest and unbalanced, with many regions of the union still experiencing unacceptable levels of unemployment, poverty, inequality and a severe lack of prospects for younger generations. therefore, the eu must work towards a dynamic and inclusive labour market embedded in the european social market economy model, improving citizens’ living conditions and enabling fair mobility.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution. the resolution called for more eu legislation, spending and interference in member states affairs. everything from tax, to migration, to increasing eu budgets and expanding eu military action. only elected national governments should make these decisions and set these policies in compliance with international law, not unaccountable eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. the commission's work programme also contains a number of positive proposals, but unfortunately i cannot support it as a whole. i am led to believe that the quotas for the redistribution of refugees, which are again being promoted here, are not appropriate for the european union, that they do not work and that they are not supported by the public in the member states. similar proposals contribute to the weakening of the union, as we saw in the case of the uk's brexit vote.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution. the resolution called for more eu legislation, spending and interference in member states affairs. everything from tax, to migration, to increasing eu budgets and expanding eu military action. only elected national governments should make these decisions and set these policies in compliance with international law, not unaccountable eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ this report shows a strong sign from this place to navigate through the difficult times in the european union at the moment. at a time when many people are becoming increasingly disillusioned with politics and europe, as well as exasperated by the continuing large divisions between the member states, it is important that the parliament does what it can to lay down a clear set of priorities and practical solutions to shared challenges. i and my labour colleagues are supporting our socialist sister parties in our group in this vote. this is because the latest developments show that we cannot continue with business as usual and we must stand up for a better politics, one which will secure a more open and tolerant society from which everyone can benefit.
in writing. – together with my s&d colleagues, i voted in favour of the commission work programme for 2017 as i believe that it reflects our group priorities, namely to improve the working and living conditions of european citizens. we want a strengthened european pillar of social rights: social protection and essential services; reducing social inequalities and promoting quality jobs; the commission, in cooperation with the member states and social partners, should also reinforce the european social dialogue. we must also strengthen sustainable economic growth and improve our long-term competitiveness; embrace a new ambitious industrial strategy building on and complementing the circular economy package; and respond to climate change and ensure energy security. the eu must also give a consistent and human response to the increased inflow of refugees, and organise direct resettlement and relocation of asylum seekers and ensure their safety and humane treatment. also there is a need to address the security concerns of citizens through judicial cooperation, timely sharing of information between national authorities and through europol and eurojust, with data protection safeguards.
in writing. ‒ even though there has been an international moratorium on commercial whaling since 1982 to protect whales from extinction there is a very narrow exception for strict scientific research permits which japan has been exploiting since this ban was brought in as a cover for its commercial whaling. in 2014 the international court of justice found that japan was in breach of international law with regards to its use of these scientific permits. japan halted its whaling briefly but has now resumed activity, most recently killing 333 minke whales, including pregnant females. this motion calls on japan to cease its whaling activities, especially as there is no scientific research need to capture and kill that many whales. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of the joint motion for resolution.
in writing. ‒ whilst i do not believe that these decisions should be taken by the european union, i do feel strongly on this issue and therefore felt that a strong message would be sent by a vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution. japan must halt its whaling programme – it threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on this report as japan must halt its whaling programme which threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution. japan must halt its whaling programme which threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour on this as japan must halt its whaling programme which threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
in writing. – this motion for a resolution calls on the commission to act, potentially interfering in a third country’s energy policy, ukip is against such neo-colonialism and accordingly voted against.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on these two resolutions objecting to an eu guarantee on european investment bank loans to belarus. the resolutions raised concerns over human rights abuses in belarus, and i certainly share these concerns. however, i supported an alternative resolution that does not object to the guarantee of loans on the grounds that belarus has taken steps to improve the situation, in particular by the release of all political prisoners in august last year, which is an important first step. (this alternative resolution was not voted on). if this improvement in the human rights situation does not continue then i believe the european institutions should reassess the loans guarantee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the efdd resolution as i believe that these matters should be properly considered by the full parliament.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls on the commission to act, potentially interfering in a third country’s energy policy, ukip is against such neo-colonialism and accordingly voted against.
in writing. i supported the objection because i am sceptical that the situation in belarus in the field of democracy and human rights is already such that it is possible to fully resume cooperation with that country in all areas.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls on the commission to act, potentially interfering in a third country’s energy policy, ukip is against such neo-colonialism and accordingly voted against.
in writing. – this motion for a resolution amounts to no more than a request to rearrange the deck chairs on the titanic, accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection. it was a motion of objection from the greens group to the commission’s delegated regulations on the criteria for setting the minimum requirement for own fund and eligible liabilities (mrel). the resolution says the opinion of the european banking authority dissenting to some of the final draft regulatory technical standards (rts). it was a technical resolution but the key point is that the rtss have excluded some important aspects for financial stability from the regulations.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this issue, which seems disproportionately to impact on italy. i do not feel that it is for me to intervene.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution amounts to no more than a request to rearrange the deck chairs on the titanic, accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution amounts to no more than a request to rearrange the deck chairs on the titanic, accordingly ukip abstained.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have long been a proponent of the benefits brought to our continent through the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and common security and defence policy (csdp) agendas. the uk-led anti-piracy operation, eu navfor atalanta, has proved not only that there is a need for a csdp-led missions, but that they can be hugely successful. the breakthrough anti-nuclear deal with iran and russian sanctions have been greatly helped by europe’s ability to work closely together. these are successes that we must point to when advocating the benefits of closer cooperation in europe. whatever the future relationship post the brexit referendum result between the united kingdom, my country, and the european union, the one thing of which i am certain is that strong cooperation in the fields of foreign policy, security and defence will continue. the shifting world order, conflict in the middle east and north africa, an aggressive russian expansionist state, global migration patterns, the effects of climate change, international jihadist terrorism as we recently saw in dhaka – all of these are shared threats and will continue to be so. as for the strategy, targets aimed at member state level to commit 20% of defence spending to procurement and to research and development, for instance, are very welcome. focusing on initiatives such as the energy union and investment in cyber security are also very positive steps. we are still seeing the infancy of the cfsp and csdp, but i continue to believe that they are the instruments for securing a strong voice for europe in the world ahead, which is ever more dangerous. so, madam high representative, my congratulations for all that you have done for us whilst leading in these areas and for your global strategy on eu cfsp and csdp strategies.
mr president, i am sorry that the public visibility of the global strategy was at least partly deflected because of the brexit debate, and i strongly support the high representative in bringing forward its publication. i believed before that europe must act concertedly to help create a peaceful and more just world, and i do not think any differently today. there is much in this strategy which socialists and democrats strongly welcome. there is no acceptance of a relative decline in europe, but rather an understanding that, in a changing world, europe itself must change to uphold our interests and our influence. that is the importance of the concept of strategic autonomy. it means that soft power may not on its own be enough, but the power of soft power should not be underestimated in the quest to prevent and overcome conflict: by being more than just a security strategy, this strategy may be more effective in making us all more secure. it means that it is a global strategy – because europe does have global interests – and it is right that we address the tensions on the korean peninsula or support for the columbia peace process, as well as the problems of our immediate neighbourhood. it means that in defence, as in other things, european cooperation really does not have to mean loss of sovereignty. the socialists and democrats welcome the commitment to making the sustainable development goals a cornerstone of eu external policy and to upholding the concept of decent work in europe and outside it. there are obvious dangers in an exercise such as this: that it is easier to define threats than to deal with them, and easier to draw up a strategy than to implement it. the key message from my group is that this must be a strategy for europe – not just in the european external action service but in every european capital. this strategy challenges us all, and it is the responsibility of all eu member states to meet that challenge.
mr president, i very much welcome the strategy. it is important that the eu defines its external objectives and has a policy to deliver them which is coherent with its internal policies as well. the world faces multiple challenges, and we need flexible instruments so that we can have quick policy responses to them. in terms of development policy, yes: development policy should be aligned with the strategic priorities, but we need a debate on what those priorities are. you know there are concerns, and in particular concerns about the migration compact and what is a kind of creeping conditionality – we heard that in the council conclusions last week. we also heard concerns around the link with security and development. i know that the intention is to make policy work properly, but the devil will be in the detail, and meps want to be involved in this, just as they want to be involved in the scrutiny of things like trust funds and new instruments, and not to be left out of these new processes. the aim of development policy is poverty reduction, and poverty reduction is the best recipe for security and for tackling immigration.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the high representative on the excellent paper. as she rightly mentioned, this is no time for uncertainty: our union needs a strategy. europe has never before faced such a convergence of security challenges, and many of these contemporary threats do not recognise national borders. unfortunately, nationalistic and xenophobic parties are gaining support across europe. the danger to the union lies in our own disunity: we must work together against radicalisation and for social inclusion and integration. the eu’s response must be comprehensive and based on a coherent set of actions. responsibility also rests with the member states for cooperation on the strategy. the nato—eu relationship is vital and i welcome the organisation’s deepening ties, which we will mark this week in warsaw. we must not allow the strategy to be another one-off event – it must become the starting point of systematic efforts to fill the eu’s foreign policy with a greater sense of purpose and urgency. it would be helpful to have an annual progress report sent to this parliament too.
blue-card question. – it is a simple question, really: i think we all want to see a resolution of this dispute, and perhaps one of the things which is required is unity within the palestinian camps. what more do you think we can do to assist with that?
mr president, i would like to speak about the middle east process and the israeli ngo bill. once again, we find ourselves debating the tragic circumstances of the conflict in israel and palestine, with more innocent lives lost on both sides, palestinian homes demolished, settlements expanding and hundreds of palestinian prisoners being held without trial, including young children. in the meantime, the israeli government stubbornly refuses to take any action towards peace and has cynically announced further settlement expansion, days after the quartet report. therefore, i call on the israeli knesset members, some of whom i have met, to vote against the proposed ngo bill if it comes to a vote next week. in this current climate only determined civil society action can bring about change. israelis and palestinians who work together for peace set an inspiring model. ms mogherini, a few weeks ago, together with my socialist colleagues, i hosted the launch of a campaign taking steps for peace, where israeli and palestinian bereaved women work together for true reconciliation ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the importance of the quartet report is not in telling us what we already know, for example that there is no serious alternative to the two—state solution, but in challenging all of us on what we may not want to hear. there is a common message to both sides: that you should talk the language of peace, but that a return to talks is not all we must ask, but also talks with a clear prospect of success in a given timetable. on the palestinian side – and i know it is sensitive with some in this chamber – this report underlines the importance of palestinian reconciliation. on the israeli side, the barriers to progress by settlement expansion are once again laid bare, but only as much as the failure of the international action to seriously affect it. the importance of the french initiative is that it shows there can be a political will to take risks by the international community, in saying to both sides in the middle east peace process that they should be willing to take risks for peace, and we should show that we are willing to do so ourselves.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, we cannot discuss a strategy for china without acknowledging the persecution and slaughter of millions of people that is being perpetrated by the chinese government. i am referring to the systematic industrialised murder of prisoners of conscience and the harvesting of their organs for transplants. what is going on in china now is comparable to the holocaust in nazi germany in its enormity and horror. the victims of this persecution are prisoners of conscience. they are not dangerous political opponents of the regime; they are democracy activists and followers of peaceful religions and philosophies. a large proportion of these people are followers of falun gong, a traditional form of meditation that teaches truthfulness, compassion and tolerance. these virtues are, of course, completely intolerable to the chinese communist party and threaten its very existence. therefore, it has decided to exterminate these people while making a profit at the same time. what is going on in china would be unbelievable if it were not backed up by voluminous evidence gathered over a long period of time by impeccable sources. falun gong followers, christians, democracy activists and others are arrested, sentenced for concocted crimes against the state and imprisoned. they are then murdered so that their organs can be used to supply the transplant industry. unbelievably, some operations are done without anaesthetic, because this is apparently more effective for a successful transplant. since the year 2000, an estimated 1 million to 1.5 million have been killed for their organs in enforced organ harvesting. these enforced transplants are now proceeding at an estimated 60 000 to 100 000 operations per year, and are worth in the region of usd 8 to 9 billion per year. the peoples of our countries must be made aware of this, and all diplomatic and economic pressure should be put on the chinese government to end this inhumane industry immediately.
madam president, the eu is china’s largest trading partner and is second only to the united states in terms of trade with the european union itself. this relationship is hugely important and is only going to increase in size and importance with time. president xi jinping has visited a number of european capitals in the last few years, including a much-publicised state visit to my country, the uk. there is no doubt, therefore, that eu-china relations are of key importance, but we must not allow this to let us shy away from our differences. this year, for instance, we must come to a decision as to whether or not to grant china market economy status, a decision that is complicated by issues surrounding intellectual property rights in china, the steel dumping crisis and the dominant role that the state continues to play in china’s economy and foreign policy. beyond trade, human rights violations in china are a huge concern. everything from censorship of the internet to this week seeing falun gong activists campaigning outside parliament against alleged brutal organ harvesting. meanwhile, the one—country—two—systems in hong kong is under pressure from the mainland, and the militarisation of the south china sea by the establishment of artificial island platforms are also of great concern. as negotiations begin on the comprehensive agreement on investment, finding a balance between reaping the mutual benefits of trade with our divergent values and human rights concerns and the bigger geopolitical aims will be necessary but by no means easy for the european union.
mr president, i am proud to support democracy and highlight different global human rights issues, from championing roma, gypsy and traveller rights to nominating somaliland’s edna adan for last year’s sakharov prize for her work supporting women’s rights and tackling female genital mutilation in the horn of africa. yesterday i met with falun gong practitioners and i would urge colleagues to join me in signing written declaration 48 of 2016 on stopping organ-harvesting from prisoners of conscience in china. last week i was dismayed that chagos islanders were denied the right of return to their homelands by the british supreme court. following the brexit vote i can think of no better way to mark my country’s return to an independent and globally engaged nation than to rectify this shameful episode in our recent history by allowing chagossians the right to return to their homeland, should they so desire. her majesty’s government must seize this opportunity to reaffirm our support for global human rights and democratic principles by setting a better example in a british indian ocean territory.
mr president, first can i welcome and support european leadership in the global fight against the death penalty and against torture, on promoting lgbt rights in the world, and on support for the un guiding principles on business in human rights. there have been some consistent concerns from parliament to the eeas on this report over the years, which we reiterate today. there must be more evaluation, less description, and there should be greater use of benchmarks to measure and to foster progress. and this year, in particular, there remain serious questions as to how far the eu’s refugee policy fully upholds human rights. but i do not want to bash the european commission on that, the needs of the refugees themselves are too important. nor do i wish to do so on the commission’s widely publicised failure to carry out the human rights impact assessment required in the eu-vietnam trade negotiations. but i do ask for an honest reflection of whether this demonstrates a mind-set that these assessments may be conducted normally on trade agreements, but for their own sake, and that they do not truly inform the trade policy which follows. a serious commitment to human rights merits a serious reflection on that question.
in writing. – europe is going through a period of crisis, which is challenging the very values on which it was built. increasingly we see the politics of solidarity and tolerance give way to division and fear. nationalists and populists seek to exploit public anxiety. moreover, there have been attempts in a number of states to introduce laws which risk contravening international standards. this is not only wrong. we have witnessed this trend in the 1930s and 1940s, and it is dangerous for the continent. it is the eu, and the rules and norms upon which it is founded, which has effectively kept the dangers of extremism and totalitarianism at bay for over half a century. if we do not stand by our democratic principles and tackle our problems while fully respecting human rights then the situation will only get worse. as societies we have been too timid, too silent. we have a responsibility to speak up, keep these issues as a priority, and make it clear that there is no tolerance towards hatred. diversity must never be seen as a threat. it adds rather than subtracts from a society, and it is our common duty to create and nurture an inclusive society.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, one of my primary concerns regarding the continuing centralisation of the european union and a reason for our campaign to leave was the furthering of the eu’s ambitions in relation to foreign affairs and defence. aside from the obvious implications that this would raise in relation to my own country, were we to have remained eu members, i also fear for the traditionally neutral stance of the republic of ireland, sweden and austria. furthermore, this report repeats the eu’s long-held ambition for a role on the un security council. the united kingdom has, of course, voted to leave, and – as has already been said – now is the time for a rational and calm discussion on the future relationship between my country and the eu. however, i would like to extend my caution to french colleagues here in this chamber, as you will soon be the only eu member state to hold a permanent seat on the un security council. i fear the pressure will only grow on you to give up that seat to the european union in time. such a move would be a terrible loss to your global influence and a way to eventually lose your rightful place. i hope that you and all other nations in this union can take heart from the british people who have voted bravely to take back control of our destiny and protect our place in the wider world.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms stevens, for her report on the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the un convention has set the gold standard for the full and equal participation of people with disabilities in society. its implementation on the ground requires a joint effort by all the european union institutions and member states, and also the involvement of people with disabilities. we have achieved good results so far but, as we all know, much remains to be done. that is also why i welcome your comprehensive and valuable recommendations. while i cannot be exhaustive here, i would like to address some of the key issues raised in your report. significant inequalities persist regarding the participation and opportunities of people with disabilities in our society and our economy. your report refers, notably, to access to employment, education and social protection. indeed, across the union, the employment rate for people with a disability is around 48%. only 27.8% have completed third-level education and one-third are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. this commission is committed to job creation and employment opportunities for all people. we are working to ensure that european legislation prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of disability in employment is fully implemented. that includes the obligation for employers – public or private – to make the necessary adaptations enabling all to work on an equal basis. our efforts are backed up by our financial instruments, in particular the european social fund, which is worth eur 86 billion. thanks to the european parliament, member states must reserve at least 20% for social inclusion. many impressive projects show how people with disabilities can be supported to find work and enabled fully to enjoy their rights in society. european funds can – and should – be used for supporting conditions for independent living. in order for member states to access these funds, we have introduced as a pre-condition that they demonstrate their administrative capacity to implement and apply the un convention. in addition, only actions which help to establish the conditions for independent living should be supported. empowering people with disabilities means that they should not live in institutions. so far, eur 3.1 billion has been allocated by member states to social infrastructure. this should contribute to our goal of transition from institutional care to community-based services. our 2010-2020 european disability strategy aims for a barrier-free europe. free movement is a basic right in the eu and persons with disabilities should not be excluded from it – either in their local living environment or when traveling abroad. that is why the commission is currently implementing, with eight member states, a pilot project on the european disability card. the card will allow people with disabilities to access certain benefits in the areas of culture, leisure, transport and sport on the same conditions as nationals of the countries concerned with disabilities. the commission has made over eur 1.5 million available in support. to break down barriers in the daily lives of people with disabilities i have put forward – and presented here in plenary in december 2015 – a legislative proposal for a european accessibility act. i am happy to report that there has been good progress in the council under the dutch council presidency and i am counting on the slovak presidency to keep up the pace. i am confident that you will also contribute to reaching an agreement on this important proposal in due time. the european accessibility act aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by harmonising accessibility requirements in the european union, but it will also serve as a catalyst for social inclusion, by giving people with disabilities access to everyday products and services. to be crystal clear, this is about putting the internal market at the service of people. the concluding observations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities provide the eu with important guidance. they highlight the positive aspects as well as gaps and difficulties in terms of implementation. the commission is committed to following up on the recommendations. we are currently preparing a progress report on the implementation of our 2010-2020 european disability strategy. it will be published before the end of this year. your report provides practical and useful input. we are also analysing the numerous contributions received during the public consultation on the strategy, which was carried out earlier this year. i would also like to highlight the fact that the outline for a european pillar of social rights, which i proposed in march of this year, includes a principle, no 16, on disability. i am therefore glad to use this opportunity to invite you all to contribute to the ongoing consultation. as to the recommendations specifically underlined by the un committee, the commission also announced its intention to withdraw from the european monitoring framework and has stopped participating in the meetings of the framework. we are currently in the process of legally formalising this action and we are also advancing in preparing a list of legal acts, which will complement the eu declaration of competences attached to the council decision for concluding the convention. reading your report confirmed my conviction that we share a joint commitment and we should work together towards achieving these goals. i agree that the eu itself should make sure that we set an example by being a disability-inclusive organisation in line with the convention. we need to look at our own institutions and pay attention to our own employees with disabilities by providing the support and protection that they and their families need, and by ensuring the accessibility of our own venues. we need to act on our commitments in consultation with, and with the participation of, organisations representing persons with disabilities. as was highlighted in your report, we continue to provide financial support for organisations representing a variety of disabilities at european level, and to work on a daily basis with them. they contribute significantly to the proper implementation and monitoring of the convention at european and national levels. in the end, we all share the objective of a europe where all people can fully enjoy their human rights and fundamental freedoms.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is exactly the sort of thing that the eu institutions should be working on. i want to commend the rapporteur and the other meps who were working on this file, and i look forward to working with them in the future. i am happy that the institutions of the eu have acknowledged their shortcomings in relation to persons with disabilities. however, i am unhappy at the fact that the much-talked-about replacement to david cameron, theresa may, has wedded herself to repealing the human rights act – the act which gives us access to the european convention on human rights. that will damage those who are trying to get access to those rights for people with a disability. i want to say that i and my party, sinn féin, as a delegation here in the gue/ngl group, will challenge that if it is the outcome of the contest that is taking place at the moment, because we cannot have a situation where persons with a disability are denied access to the european convention on human rights. in relation to the implementation of this report, i commend the work of all who have been involved in it.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, firstly this is a human rights convention and it is right that the european union’s human rights mechanisms are used to support its implementation. so it is now in the action plan on democracy and human rights and i welcome that, but i would like to see the special representative on human rights, human rights dialogues with third countries and country strategy papers on human rights, really champion the convention and champion the rights of people with disabilities in terms of europe’s influence worldwide. secondly, i say to our friend ms thyssen – and i think we will be working even more closely in the next period – do not just do what you would have done anyway in the disability strategy. you and your colleagues do some good things and we support you in doing it, but the convention is a different legal obligation for us in the european union and we have to show that we are acting differently because of that legal obligation, and not simply redress what we would have done anyway, and pretend it is to do with the convention. we have to do better than that. finally, i was involved in the lobbying for the convention. i am deeply proud of that and people with disabilities were there, and their organisations, it was fantastic, but when the review came out, the commission did not undertake a formal consultation with people with disabilities and their organisations – they did informally but not formally. i want to ask you, when it comes to the next review conference, every time you send a delegation to the un to discuss the convention on the rights of people with disabilities, to involve disabled people, involve disabled people’s organisations – nothing about us without us. i know you say those words. when you do it, make sure you do it, and on this occasion, i am sorry but you did not.
author. – madam president, today's resolution particularly focuses on the desperate plight of albinos in malawi, but this is a problem that extends far beyond those borders to many other parts of africa. the one statistic that remains in my mind is that 98% of those with albinism in africa die before the age of 40, often from terrible skin cancers, but also from acts of violence against albinos, which are unfortunately only too common. in malawi alone, there have been 65 recorded violent incidents since 2014. a mixture of folklore and belief systems that openly stigmatizes the condition by association with omens and bad luck versus ideas of the magical healing powers of dismembered limbs has resulted in an extremely dangerous and hostile environment for those poor individuals with albinism. the associated social stigma has devastating consequences for employment prospects and access to health care, as well as often having adverse effects for the social standing of other family members. there is a clear need for educational programs and of course for efforts by the criminal justice authorities to bring those to justice who have carried out acts of violence attacking albinos. i am pleased on behalf of the ecr today that we have raised this subject in the european parliament, and i am very happy, as a doctor of medicine myself, to have signed today's joint resolution.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, within the last few weeks the british press reported once more instances where religious superstition and witchcraft have had a devastating impact on albinos’ lives in malawi. now quite clearly overseas aid, even that given on a conditional basis, is shown not to be effective in dealing with the education, employment and income issues that might, if improved, deal with the awful prosecution and persecution of defenceless albinos. now the european union should look to itself and end its punitive trade barriers against african agricultural products, those trade barriers that block much needed national economic development. only via national economic development do properly funded health and education policies that will lessen the superstition and witchcraft practices have any chance of improving african societies for all citizens, not just albinos. the commonwealth of nations will undoubtedly take the necessary lead from now on in this matter, but i urge the european union to look at its african trade practices, which are not helping the plight of albinos or the african poor and thus the african continent's future.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, in 2012, together with fellow members of the human rights subcommittee i visited nabeel rajab in juw prison, bahrain, and today, four years later, he is rearrested and the fédération internationale des droits de l’homme tell us that he is in solitary confinement and his life is at risk. this is just one case, but should be put together with the travel bans against those human rights defenders, preventing them going to the un human rights council in geneva on the restoration of the death sentence and on the arrest of opposition politicians, all cited in our resolution. the truth is that four years later, human rights in bahrain have deteriorated. we recognise there have been improvements on labour laws and on the freedom of religion, but there has been no improvement on human rights. we see that freedom of expression is violated, contrary to the country’s own constitution, and more than 300 people have been stripped of citizenship, contrary to the universal declaration on human rights. we want cooperation with bahrain, but our resolution says that that cooporation cannot continue as normal unless we see the improvement of human rights. human rights in this country must change. they have to listen, and we will never ever forget a human rights defender who is at risk, anywhere in the world.
madam president, this is not the first time i have stood in this parliament to speak about the human rights abuses in bahrain, and i am not happy with my own country’s record on the deals that it does with kingdom of bahrain. on 24 june, together with 49 fellow meps, i sent an open letter to federica mogherini on nabeel rajab’s re-arrest. i look forward to her reply and i thank my colleague panzeri for his work on this. in the meantime, i am glad will be voting on this resolution and that we will come together to say clearly that nabeel must be released immediately and unconditionally, with all other human rights defenders and political prisoners in bahrain. the bahraini government must understand that allowing free, open and diverse democratic debate and a vibrant civil society will not make it weaker. democracy and human rights will only make bahrain stronger, with a brighter future for all bahrainis. it is time for the bahraini government to hold up its own constitution and release nabeel now.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the united nations is an organisation for independent and sovereign states, with very few exceptions. we do not believe that the eu should have a place in the general assembly. various parts of the resolution were of concern, in particular calls for the two eu member states with permanent seats on the un security council to represent the eu in this capacity.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with parliament’s recommendation on the agenda for the upcoming 71st session of the united nations general assembly. the report has a number of positive aspects on matters of human rights, democracy, rule of law and the proliferation of weapons. however there are a number of negative aspects as well, related to the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) of the european union, to eu battlegroups, and to the proposal for the eu to have its own seat on the un security council. i therefore abstained on the overall vote.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the united nations is an organisation for independent and sovereign states, with very few exceptions. we do not believe that the eu should have a place in the general assembly. various parts of the resolution were of concern, in particular calls for the two eu member states with permanent seats on the un security council to represent the eu in this capacity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which sets out parliament’s recommendation to the council on important points to raise ahead of the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. it covers a range of topics including peace and security, the fight against terrorism, human rights, development and reform of the un system. it contains many helpful and timely recommendations, including calls for enhanced cooperation on migration, to work towards the implementation of the sustainable development goals and to promote the full implementation of the arms trade treaty.
in writing. – on behalf of the european parliamentary labour party, we respectfully voted against the goal of the eu having a single seat in the un security council, to reflect the consistent position our delegation has taken, on an otherwise excellent report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it sets out parliament’s recommendation to the council on important points to raise ahead of the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. it contains many helpful and timely recommendations, including calls for enhanced cooperation on migration, to work towards the implementation of the sustainable development goals and to promote the full implementation of the arms trade treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which sets out parliament’s recommendation to the council on important points to raise ahead of the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. it covers a range of topics including peace and security, the fight against terrorism, human rights, development and reform of the un system. it contains many helpful and timely recommendations, including calls for enhanced cooperation on migration, to work towards the implementation of the sustainable development goals and to promote the full implementation of the arms trade treaty.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the united nations is an organisation for independent and sovereign states, with very few exceptions. we do not believe that the eu should have a place in the general assembly. various parts of the resolution were of concern, in particular calls for the two eu member states with permanent seats on the un security council to represent the eu in this capacity.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this report because it contains my key demands for the content of the proceedings of this year's un general assembly. i personally welcome, for example, the reference to the unacceptability of the occupation of crimea and russia's interference in the conflict in eastern ukraine.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the united nations is an organisation for independent and sovereign states, with very few exceptions. we do not believe that the eu should have a place in the general assembly. various parts of the resolution were of concern, in particular calls for the two eu member states with permanent seats on the un security council to represent the eu in this capacity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i do not recognise the eu's right to get involved in un matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation to the council regarding the 71st session of the unga. i am particularly pleased to hear that many amendments which were the initiative of my socialist colleagues have been included in the text, particularly amendments concerning the role of women in the peace process, an aspect which is all too often overlooked; a zero tolerance for the death penalty; lgbti rights; and a human rights-based approach to migration, with special attention given to women and children. overall, i think this is a satisfactory text, which i can support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because it covers a range of topics including peace and security, the fight against terrorism, human rights, development and reform of the un system. it contains many helpful and timely recommendations, including calls for enhanced cooperation on migration, to work towards the implementation of the sustainable development goals and to promote the full implementation of the arms trade treaty.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-binding and non-legislative report. the report was regarding the implementation of a un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. however the report also called for setting standards of social protection measures at eu level. while of course ukip supports the rights of disabled people, it should only be for elected national governments, in compliance with international law, to decide social protection policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which incorporated a number of proposals that i put forward as author of the associated opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) was ratified by the eu in 2010, covering a large range of rights for people with disabilities, ranging from the workplace to transport. accession means the eu is now scrutinised by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. the cprd committee published its concluding observations on the initial report of the eu in august 2015, which require the commission to respond with a report within a year. the purpose of this own-initiative report is to ensure that parliament’s views are taken into account in the commission’s response (due in september). among other things, the report calls for the eu to ratify the optional protocol to the crpd, welcomes the proposal for a european accessibility act and calls for its swift adoption. it calls on the commission to review the european disability strategy and develop a new eu cprd strategy; and calls for a review of all eu legislation and funding programmes to ensure full compliance and implementation with the cprd.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support this report by my colleague, helga stevens. in the uk we have long supported the development of this convention, and it fits well with the uk approach to supporting people with disabilities, focusing on inclusion and involving disabled people in the decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-binding and non-legislative report. the report was regarding the implementation of a un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. however the report also called for setting standards of social protection measures at eu level. while of course ukip supports the rights of disabled people, it should only be for elected national governments, in compliance with international law, to decide social protection policy.
in writing. ‒ the labour party has long championed the rights of those living with disabilities at every level of government. in the uk, there are an estimated 11 million people with a limiting long-term illness, impairment or disability, with the most commonly reported impairments being those that affect mobility, lifting or carrying. mainstream society often excludes people with disabilities and they are effectively denied their human rights. labour meps are committed to defending, promoting and reinforcing the human rights of all persons with disabilities. i voted in favour of this report as i believe that all people living with a disability must enjoy all human rights that they are afforded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as labour meps are committed to defending, promoting and reinforcing the human rights of all persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as labour meps are committed to defending, promoting and reinforcing the human rights of all persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the labour party has long championed the rights of those living with disabilities at every level of government. in the uk, there are an estimated 11 million people with a limiting long-term illness, impairment or disability, with the most commonly reported impairments being those that affect mobility, lifting or carrying. mainstream society often excludes people with disabilities and they are effectively denied their human rights. labour meps are committed to defending, promoting and reinforcing the human rights of all persons with disabilities. i voted in favour of this report as i believe that all people living with a disability must enjoy all human rights that they are afforded.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-binding and non-legislative report. the report was regarding the implementation of a un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. however the report also called for setting standards of social protection measures at eu level. while of course ukip supports the rights of disabled people, it should only be for elected national governments, in compliance with international law, to decide social protection policy.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-binding and non-legislative report. the report was regarding the implementation of a un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. however the report also called for setting standards of social protection measures at eu level. while of course ukip supports the rights of disabled people, it should only be for elected national governments, in compliance with international law, to decide social protection policy.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i do not recognise the eu's competence in this area.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report as my party has at every level of government long championed the rights of those living with disabilities. in the uk, there are an estimated 11 million people with a limiting long-term illness, impairment or disability, the most commonly reported impairments being those that affect mobility, lifting or carrying. mainstream society often excludes people with disabilities, who are effectively denied their human rights as a result. i and labour meps are committed to defending, promoting and reinforcing the human rights of all persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the labour party has long championed the rights of those living with disabilities at every level of government. in the uk, there are an estimated 11 million people with a limiting long-term illness, impairment or disability, with the most commonly reported impairments being those that affect mobility, lifting or carrying. mainstream society often excludes people with disabilities and they are effectively denied their human rights. the report pays special attention to the eu institutions themselves, which are to be a role model in implementing the convention. this includes staff regulations and recruitment and retention practices as well as public events hosted by parliament and on the parliament’s premises. i am of the opinion that there is no hierarchy of human rights and disability-based discrimination must be tackled in the same way as discrimination on other grounds, including discrimination on more than one ground. this is especially important for women and children with disabilities, older persons and individuals who have complex support needs, including those with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities.
in writing. – as a champion of the rights of persons with disabilities and a link member to the crpd (un committee of the rights of persons with disability) for the committee on culture and education, i welcome the adoption of this report. the labour party has long championed the rights of those living with disabilities at every level of government. in the uk, there are an estimated 11 million people with a limiting long-term illness, impairment or disability, with the most commonly reported impairments being those that affect mobility, lifting or carrying. the report pays special attention to the eu institutions themselves, which are to be a role model in implementing the convention. this includes staff regulations and recruitment and retention practices as well as public events hosted by parliament and on parliament’s premises. mainstream society often excludes people with disabilities and they are effectively denied their human rights. i am of the opinion that disability-based discrimination must be tackled in the same way as discrimination on other grounds, including multiple discrimination. this is especially important for women and children with disabilities, older persons and individuals who have complex support needs, including those with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, christel schaldemose, for all her work on this important issue. the fact that today we made a decision to object to the use of four health claims on caffeine is very important. why is it important? it is important because we felt as meps that these claims, these health claims, would be misused and abused, in particular by the energy drinks industry. we have been doing some work on the energy drinks industry in this house on the issue of how they have been marketing their products to children and we know from many local authorities across the countries that we work within that there are issues about consumption of energy drinks amongst young people. i would like to commend the work of a particular individual, councillor norma hart from edinburgh city council, who has done so much work and mounted a campaign on this issue about energy drinks. what i want to end with is the fact that today we did not get this stuff through on nutrient profiling. this is something we have to do in the future.
in writing. – we oppose the unelected commission legislating on this matter. we strongly oppose any introduction of restrictions on the market by the eu. the uk parliament will be able to decide if and how to legislate on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which urges the commission to place restrictions on the marketing of energy drinks to children and adolescents. the commission’s draft measure authorises health claims on caffeine relating to an increase in endurance performance, an increase in endurance capacity, increased alertness and improved concentration. there are concerns however about the adverse effects this could have on consumers, especially on young people. energy drinks have a high sugar and caffeine content and they are known to cause headaches, sleep problems and behavioural problems in young people who regularly consume them. moreover, growth in the energy-drinks market has boomed and children and teenagers are some of the biggest consumers. warning labels are being ignored whilst the industry’s code of practice, which is merely voluntary anyway, only commits it not to market energy drinks to children under 12. instead of pushing forward with health claims which help to promote these energy products, the commission must stop dragging its heels and come forward with the nutrient profiles which have already been agreed upon in legislation, instead of giving energy drinks a leg-up on the market.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the unelected commission legislating on this matter. we strongly oppose any introduction of restrictions on the market by the eu. the uk parliament will be able to decide if and how to legislate on this matter.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted to protect consumers from misleading health claims found on energy drinks. energy drinks should not be marketed as healthy, and especially not to children.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted to protect consumers from misleading health claims found on energy drinks. energy drinks should not be marketed as healthy, and especially not to children.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to protect consumers from misleading health claims being used on energy drinks.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted to protect consumers from misleading health claims being used on energy drinks.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the unelected commission legislating on this matter. we strongly oppose any introduction of restrictions on the market by the eu. the uk parliament will be able to decide if and how to legislate on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the final vote on this point because i am not convinced that it is possible to decide clearly whether caffeine is a substance that has a positive or negative effect on the human body. that is my position on the objection raised.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the unelected commission legislating on this matter. we strongly oppose any introduction of restrictions on the market by the eu. the uk parliament will be able to decide if and how to legislate on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because i do not recognise the eu's right to legislate in this area.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this objection as we must protect consumers from misleading health claims being used on energy drinks.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this is a problem of the eu’s own making. when you harmonise, when you impose uniformity by regulation, you build in opportunities for scamming and mischief making. this could easily be avoided by a much simpler approach: mutual recognition. if a food can be safely and enjoyably eaten in one member state, this must be true of all. british, german and romanian people do not have different bodies from one another: physiologically they are the same. if a food is safe to eat and is of merchantable quality in one member state, then the same is true in all its neighbours. this is the concept which underlay the cassis de dijon judgment: fit for sale in one member state means fit for sale in all. but, for reasons i simply cannot explain, the simple, transparent, practical approach was rejected in favour of harmonisation. please, commissioner, just for once, learn from your mistakes and ... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – i would just like to ask you whether you agree with me that if we do not have mutual recognition then this will lead to further problems beyond brexit? we would end up with frexit, czech-out, everybody else leaving. do you agree that this is damaging to europe in general, and that mutual recognition would solve that problem?
mr president, we would like to support the ecr’s recommendation. i cannot believe that the conference of presidents have selected mr verhofstadt as someone who will be negotiating on behalf of the european parliament regarding brexit. i have been in this parliament for six years and i have heard the ramblings of mr verhofstadt: i am telling you now, he is no friend of britain. the last time i spoke in this parliament, i said that we need to be cool, we need to be calm, we need to ensure that we all get the best deal. mr verhofstadt’s appointment is no good for french farmers, and no good for british car manufacturers who sell a lot of cars into britain. we need the best deal possible, and i ask you, please, to rethink mr verhofstadt’s appointment and come up with a more neutral candidate.
mr president, we in ukip object both to the eu strategy on heating and cooling and the commission’s new energy market design. it is clear that the eu strategy on heating and cooling would be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damages to the european industry and economy. with regard to the new energy market design, we opposed the implementation of the third energy package in all member states. the disaster of the eu over-commitment to unreliable, intermittent and hugely expensive renewables has now made clear that the eu climate policies have done far more economic damage than anything that could be envisaged as a result of climate change. they have forced up prices, undermined competitiveness and driven energy-intensive industries out of the eu altogether, taking their jobs and investment with them. the uk as an independent country will soon be free to choose how to make its own energy policy and to exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
mr president, while i respect the outcome of the uk referendum i still believe that many people were not given adequate information, especially when it comes to energy. this week we are voting on two reports on eu guidelines for renewables. meanwhile, data highlights the fact that the uk is failing to achieve our 2020 renewable targets. post brexit, the uk has a big decision to make: do we want to follow ambitious eu targets creating a strong economy and a safer environment for future generations, or do we want a race to the bottom and the scrapping of renewable targets to massage big business? i call on the uk government and our secretary of state for business, energy and industrial strategy, greg clark, to clarify the government’s position ahead of brexit negotiations. what is it, greg: a race to the bottom, or a future for our young people?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, cohesion or regional subsidy is too often a means to throw good taxpayers’ money after bad. in the real world, to help smes to deliver growth you have to make markets work and make them deliver high quality competitive products and services from satisfied, well—paid workers. you put the role of the market centre stage but only as a vehicle to deliver prosperity, not as an ideological end in its own right. getting markets to operate in the general or public interest is one of the most vital, yet difficult, tasks of politicians. we have to recognise the massively damaging consequences of all cartels and oligopoly, and of private monopoly and state control – in short of cronyism at taxpayers’ expense. there is little or nothing in these reports which shows any understanding of this. what is required is not cronyism, but proper competition which is not rigged or manipulated. that has to mean lots of players in the market, none of whom is able to achieve dominance. dominance does not just mean monopoly. it also means a small number of big players effectively operating as a cartel. as usual, the eu starts with worthy intentions but, because it does not understand the nature of the problem, it will waste money, achieve little and probably make the situation worse. that is why my country has voted to leave.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, as well as the commissioner for her contribution. i certainly welcome these reports we are discussing this evening and i want to concentrate on the reports on research and innovation and smes. traditionally, we have focused our investment in cohesion funds on infrastructure, training and job creation, but we should not neglect the opportunities to also invest in research and development. one way of doing this would be to use structural funds and horizon 2020 funds together. this does happen, but of course that are many obstacles in the way. we should be looking to make it easier to use those funds together; i think our own regulations can help in terms of improving simplification and bringing the regulations of the two funds closer together. we should also be making it easier for smes to access structural funds. i am sure we have all heard complaints from smes in our own regions. many smes do benefit from structural funds, through capital investments and through training programmes, etc., but again i believe we can do even more on this. once again, our own regulations can help with that. i just wanted to conclude by saying that i understand that there are many critics of cohesion policy – and we have heard some critics here tonight – but i think sometimes we can be far too negative. cohesion policy is a huge success story; you only have to look at the figures, the jobs created, the businesses created, in your own regions, to know it is a success story. i wish sometimes that colleagues would be more positive about it.
mr president, first of all a comment on smes, which represent the backbone of our economy. we must therefore facilitate their ability to operate and trade across europe, especially in the creative and media sector. any strategy on smes must include support for cooperatives, social enterprises and alternative business models because these have so much potential for a more ethical way of doing business and can bring about accountability to the private sector. we must also ensure that vulnerable excluded groups have access to entrepreneurship education, particularly women and girls who face greater obstacles and prejudice. with reference to innovation and the need to build synergies between cohesion policy and innovation strategies, innovation is by definition a cross-cutting concept. so i welcome the efforts to better coordinate funding tools that are crucial for the sustainable development of european regions in both urban and rural areas. last july i attended the european science open forum in manchester in my northwest constituency where i co—hosted a session on the links between the arts and science together with my colleague eva kaili. this session confirmed the demand in both communities to change the silo mentality. businesses, scientists and artists all argued in favour of a more global approach to innovation and to jointly explore their common impact on societies. this should be the essence of smart specialisation strategies. they should not only be seen as a tick-box exercise. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, foreign aid should be about helping a country that is not as well off as our own by providing them with medicines, schools and equipment to have clean water and to grow their own food. this way, developing nations do not continually have to rely on aid from developed countries as they will have the tools to grow their own country without the unwanted influence of the european union and its vanity projects. overseas aid can be good if used properly in the short term, but it does not help developing nations out of poverty in the long term. the only way that this can be achieved is by removing barriers to trade, rather than giving aid handouts. if handouts are continually given, this will lead to corrupt leaders purposefully obstructing economic growth within their country which, in turn, will lead to a total misuse of british taxpayers’ funds. we should not be using development aid funds to further the eu’s expansionist policies by influencing political participation and governance. this is not acceptable and it is one of the reasons why the united kingdom voted to leave the eu.
madam president, as the budget rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs i want to raise a number of concerns on the use of trust funds as an instrument. i appreciate why the funds were created; it was basically to enable the eu to respond to many new crises that were unforeseen by the multiannual framework and to bring on board new donors. however, we have a situation where the african trust fund is currently short of eur 1.7 billion due to lack of member states’ contributions. now how is this gap to be plugged? i hope not by taking away resources from our long-standing commitments to sustainable development goals and undermining other goals that the ep has set which are already in need of additional resources. so what we need urgently is a fully resourced and a permanent eu crisis reserve. it is incredulous that some members of the trust fund have a seat on the board and have a say on how it is executed with contributions of as little as eur 50 000, when the european parliament, despite its 1.8 billion contribution, is not represented.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleague vilija blinkevičiūtė for all her work on this report, which i know has taken some time. it is extremely important that the report takes a clear stand against austerity and widening social inequality. it highlights the sad reality that women are especially affected by precarious labour, zero-hour contracts and cuts in public services. the commission and national governments must heed the call here and take action. it is an important example of how the eu promotes gender equality and social justice and why it is so important that we stand up for our core values. as labour meps here in the european parliament, we have a duty to draw attention to the important work done in this house. we must make sure that our constituents in the uk continue to benefit from the social protection enshrined in eu law, in any eventuality.
madam president, for decades the eu has channelled vital funding to the northeast of england, my home region. between 2014 and 2020 we were set to receive over half a billion pounds sterling in regional and social funding. this money underpins our local economy, securing thousands of jobs, developing key infrastructure and driving real innovation and excellence in our region. following the brexit vote, there is a real danger that one of the poorest english regions could be heavily out of pocket. we were promised by the leave campaigners that brexit would make us richer and that these funds would be protected, but ministers have only committed to underwriting contracts concluded by the autumn statement. that is just not good enough. tonight i call on the british government to guarantee that all eu funds promised are delivered and that long-term investment in regions like mine is guaranteed.
madam president, the many threats facing europe’s bee population, including those of environmental changes and the varroa parasite, are well known, but it is my duty to address the appalling lack of focus and public attention being given to the spread of the small hive beetle in southern italy. this parasite has been wreaking havoc on italian beekeepers for over two years and despite serious eradication efforts similar to the failed attempts in the united states, canada and australia, the small hive beetle has now established itself in italy, and what is more, it is there to stay. tonight i call for the immediate ban on the export of all italian queen bees and the placing of a movement ban on italian hives. unless such drastic steps are taken, our honeybees face extinction. british and european beekeepers are calling for this, but, to their despair, no one listens. action must now be taken or it will be too late.
madam president, the british government, not content with dragging the people of the north of ireland out of the eu, are now keeping us in the dark about their intentions for our future. theresa may’s government is divided and confused. brexit means brexit, but what does it mean for the people of england, scotland or wales and for the people in the north of ireland? they do not know, and that is hurting communities and businesses. both the british and irish governments must immediately explore ways by which the democratic wishes of the people of the north of ireland can be respected. fifty-six per cent of the people voted to remain – so they need to listen to the people, including human rights groups, language activists, children’s campaigners, businesses, the voluntary and community sector, students, farmers and political parties, who all said loud and clear: ‘remain means remain’. hundreds and thousands of us in the north of ireland have irish passports and that means we are eu citizens, therefore remain must mean remain.
on behalf of the enf group. – madam president, at the recent g20 meeting my prime minister, theresa may, expressed the uk’s determination to once again be a global leader in free trade. now that the uk will soon unshackle itself from the eu, it will be able to reach out to its commonwealth partners, which it could not do before, because of eu restrictions. africa kept in poverty by aid from this place will instead be able to trade freely again with the uk. india and australia, representing major markets, have already shown their interest in a free trade deal. china, another huge market, is equally ready to look into a free trade deal with my country. if even a tiny country such as switzerland has a trade deal with china, then surely the uk can have one as well. and it will. all the while the eu has no trade deal with major markets around the world. you exclude russia because of your stupid sanctions. i hope my country reopens trade negotiations with russia and we will continue to have a good relationship with it. the eu dictates the trade policies of european countries and, unsurprisingly, with meagre results, unless you believe that the few deals that it has managed to negotiate with countries such as morocco, papua new guinea and algeria are game changers. of course you do have your secret ttip negotiations – and how is that going, by the way? your friend obama tries to push through ttip, and that mostly serves the interests of multinationals. it does not serve the people. ttip will end up in the bin, as the french and german ministers have already publicly announced that it is dead in the water. i am not gloating over these failures, but i do want to point out that the eu has a bad track record and has failed the peoples of the eu. member states have their hands tied behind their backs because an unelected commission is deciding for you. i bet the uk will have a trade deal with all major economies across the globe before the eu and yes, even with the usa. obama will soon leave office and a new us government will be more than happy to sign a trade deal with the uk, just like the rest of the world.
madam president, it is good that countries meet to talk things through. it is even good that the eu – for so long as it exists – tags along for the ride. but let us be clear: summits in china are not going to solve the key problems facing europe, namely economic stagnation and the social disruption caused by uncontrolled, irregular and large—scale immigration from africa and asia. so long as the euro remains, growth across its members will be weak. we have had 15 years to find this out and every year provides us with more evidence. on migration, mrs merkel seems to expect all the schengen countries to clear up her mess, and mr juncker thinks national borders should be abolished altogether. the eu’s representatives will keep going to g20 summits but every year they will be pushed a little further out to the fringes in the family photograph. the awkward truth is that, with every passing year, the failing eu and its members count for less in the world. mr moscovici is right to say that the uk will remain a decisive european country in the years ahead. i very much hope that it can be a beacon for europe, encouraging other european countries to take back control of their politics at a national level and make good use of the extra social solidarity that the nation-state provides. only by harnessing this can european voices command the influence in the world that our great continent deserves.
madam president, the recent g20 summit in hangzhou saw several notable outcomes in steel dumping, tax avoidance and the refugee crisis. however, it was the comments made to my own country, the united kingdom, which were chilling. with the focus of the meeting on economic growth, trade and investment, and with the uk’s decision to exit the eu, until that exit is concluded, uncertainty will exist in all of these areas. we do not even know, almost three months on since the referendum result, whether the uk’s negotiating position will prioritise access to the eu single market, a single market critical to the health of the british economy, critical to british jobs and, i would say, critical to britain’s national interest. and then there were the comments made by president obama that a trade deal between the us and the eu will be a priority over any trade deal with the uk, followed by the warning from the japanese that their firms could pull out of the uk if there was no single market access. i urge the british government to listen, to take action, and to ensure that britain can maintain what it has in accessing 500 million consumers in 27 different countries with one single set of rules, ensuring certainty for business and the highest standards for consumers.
mr president, as has been said, this is a time to take stock of what the committee’s work has uncovered. we have heard already that a decision was taken in the past to move in a direction that has led to higher nox emissions, concentrating rightly – yes – on reducing co2, but having this side effect. it has been stated on numerous occasions that there has been a lack of knowledge and a lack of credible evidence as to the effects of diesel on public health. but, of course, part of the reason why that evidence was not forthcoming is the myriad of levels of responsibility that exist under the current frameworks, ensuring that nobody can take full responsibility for what has happened. you have member states blaming the european union, you have the commission blaming the member states, and you have the car companies in effect slipping through various loopholes, taking advantage of loopholes and slipping through the net. what we have found out so far is that there is a terrible discrepancy in the interpretation of existing legislation. the commissioner is absolutely correct when she says that we must use what we find out in this committee of inquiry to make sure that forthcoming legislation does not have the same mistakes, and does not contain the same loopholes and opportunities for ambiguous interpretation of what must be very clear rules. finally, i thank my colleagues from across the political spectrum on this. it is essential that we work together and it is essential that this does not become a political slanging match between left and right, because we owe it to european consumers and to public health throughout the european union, to get this right.
mr president, first of all i ought to congratulate colleagues because the debate, as i am hearing it, is a great deal more interesting than the interim report, although that was unanimously supported by the committee. it is a very curious report since it is almost totally devoid of content. it is an extraordinarily reflexive and self-referential document. indeed, in paragraph 1, the committee calls on itself to fulfil its own mandate, which seems strangely tautological and redundant. it also calls on the commission for more cooperation. i would, however, take issue with one word in the report. with extraordinary hubris, paragraph 4 requires governments, parliaments and the competent authorities of member states to take certain actions. it is no business of this parliament or of its temporary committee to require sovereign governments to take any action at all. had common courtesy prevailed, had the committee requested rather than required, we might have supported the report. as it is, i am afraid we cannot.
mr president, it has been a year since we discovered that motorists around the world have been cheated by volkswagen and, since then, the question has been: how did they do it without regulators noticing, not just in europe but throughout the world? if a company wants to cheat, no system will be 100% secure. but the key is to make it as hard as possible to cheat, and we need to do that as soon as we can. we have new ‘real driving emissions’ (rde) testing rules already in place, which is one key part of the answer, and we have new market surveillance proposals from the commission, which are the second key part. we need to deal with this as soon as possible, even while the emis committee is examining specific lessons with a view to reporting back to us next year. we have a type-approval system at national level with mutual recognition. it is the right system, but it needs national administrations to enforce it, as the commissioner herself said last night. so let us be clear: every administration in the world was fooled by volkswagen, not just those in europe. we need a proper peer-to-peer review system for member states and we need proper market surveillance both at national and eu level. we need a system that works and that we can deliver. we can deliver it to protect consumers and the environment, but we need to get on with it. there is no time to delay.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for this interim report. it does not tell us a great deal, but it does set out where we have been going with this, and, for me, there are clearly two strands. i came to this because of my rapporteurship on air quality, and my problems started when i was given a presentation from the directorate-general for the environment at the beginning of that process – that is about three years ago now – which clearly showed that they were very well aware of the disconnect between the actual standards and what they delivered on the road. i honestly can tell you that was the first time i was aware of it, and from that moment on i was determined that we should get to the bottom of why that should happen. now, in this particular inquiry, with these two strands, political and technical, my concern is that we make sure that, at the end of this, we know what the political lessons were; we understand clearly why the parts of the commission that should have been working together, to make this work for citizens and their health, were not doing so quickly enough and not taking their responsibility seriously enough; and that we have in place a system that will ensure this never happens again.
mr president, i just wonder if it is in order to congratulate the former president of the commission, mr barroso, on his appointment with goldman sachs. and also to express my concern that his pension as a former president of the commission seemingly is not enough. is that in order mr president?
mr president, what is the purpose of cohesion payments? it seems to me there isn’t really a moral case for them. there are parts of the world that are genuinely needy. there are many more deserving recipients of our aid than these territories within the european union. if we have money to give away as development money, it should be targeted to africa, asia, and places where it will be useful. or is it, then, that it is raising the standard of living in the recipient countries? well if that worked, then greece would be the wealthiest country in the european union, having been the largest per capita recipient since 1981 of cohesion and structural funds. the reality is, of course, this money goes to purchasing the loyalty of interest groups within the recipient countries, and this is relevant because as the uk negotiates its disengagement there is going to be a question of what we continue to pay into and what we do not. obviously, if we’re going to continue to be part of any programmes or common structures, of course we are going pay our share of those. you will not find anyone arguing about that. but the idea of paying simply because somebody has a medium-level gdp? not going to happen.
in writing. – we voted against this report because, as usual, it was filled with buzzwords and phrases that sound impressive but which will do nothing to create growth and jobs. the eu’s obsessive interference and over-regulation damage both jobs and growth, and we fail to see how buzzwords and corporate-speak will change that.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this own initiative report, which covers the innovation objective of the europe 2020 strategy. each member state has adopted its own national targets in each of these areas (employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and climate/energy). national and regional authorities across europe will design smart specialisation strategies in entrepreneurial discovery process, so that the european structural investment funds (esif) can be used more efficiently and synergies between different eu, national and regional policies, as well as public and private investments can be increased. there are some good points in the report, including a broad view of innovation, support for technological as well as practice-based and social innovation, and a monitoring and evaluation system. it also provides investment choices for regions with a limited number of priorities, particularly knowledge-based investments and/or clusters. however, the report focuses very heavily on using cohesion policies to meet the europe 2020 objectives, places a strong emphasis on public-private funding and financial mechanisms, and identifies competitiveness is the main overarching goal of the innovation strategy. for these reasons i could not support the report entirely, so abstained.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy i voted against this report. this report has been prepared by the committee on regional development and therefore contains many eu buzzwords but ultimately delivers little.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because as usual, it was filled with buzz words and phrases that sound impressive but which will do nothing to create growth and jobs. the eu’s obsessive interference and over regulation damages both jobs and growth and we fail to see how buzz words and corporate speak will change that.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because as usual, it was filled with buzz words and phrases that sound impressive but which will do nothing to create growth and jobs. the eu’s obsessive interference and over regulation damages both jobs and growth and we fail to see how buzz words and corporate speak will change that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because innovation is an area that is continuously evolving. it follows therefore that ris3 strategies should be constantly revised. in order to achieve this, a review of the strategies after 2017 seems mandatory so as to boost efficiency and effectiveness, also taking into account the lessons learned from the initial years of their implementation.
in writing. ‒ with my eplp colleagues i voted in favour of this report because innovation is an area that is continuously changing, ris 3 strategies should be constant revised. for this purpose, a review of the strategies after 2017 seems mandatory in order to boost the efficiency and effectiveness of them, taking also into account the lessons learned from the initial years of their implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as innovation is an area that is continuously changing. therefore, a review of the strategies after 2017 seems mandatory in order to boost the efficiency and effectiveness of them, taking also into account the lessons learned from the initial years of their implementation.
in writing. ‒ with my eplp colleagues i voted in favour of this report because innovation is an area that is continuously changing, ris 3 strategies should be constant revised. for this purpose, a review of the strategies after 2017 seems mandatory in order to boost the efficiency and effectiveness of them, taking also into account the lessons learned from the initial years of their implementation.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because as usual, it was filled with buzz words and phrases that sound impressive but which will do nothing to create growth and jobs. the eu’s obsessive interference and over regulation damages both jobs and growth and we fail to see how buzz words and corporate speak will change that.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because as usual, it was filled with buzz words and phrases that sound impressive but which will do nothing to create growth and jobs. the eu’s obsessive interference and over regulation damages both jobs and growth and we fail to see how buzz words and corporate speak will change that.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report due it being an eu commission project and we do not recognise their competency in this area.
in writing. – with my eplp colleagues i voted in favour of this report because innovation is an area that is continuously changing, ris 3 strategies should be constant revised. for this purpose, a review of the strategies after 2017 seems mandatory in order to boost the efficiency and effectiveness of them, taking also into account the lessons learned from the initial years of their implementation
in writing. ‒ innovation is, by definition, a cross-cutting concept. i therefore welcome the effort made in this report to build synergies across policy areas and better coordinate funding tools that are crucial for the sustainable development of regions, in both urban and rural areas. i attended the european symposium on science (esof) 2016 last july in my region in manchester, and where i co-hosted with my greek s&d colleague eva kaili a session on the natural links between the arts and science. this session confirmed that there is a demand in both communities to work beyond the obvious and to change the mentality of working in silos. attending businesses, scientists and artists all argued in favour of a more global approach to innovation, and to jointly explore their common impact on societies. for me this should be the essence of ‘smart specialisation’ strategies. smart specialisation should not only be seen as a tick box exercise for jobs and growth, but help us answer ecological, social, economic and cultural challenges. and we must invest in creative thinking and transferable skills if the eu wants to be at the forefront of innovation in a fast changing world.
in writing. – we voted against this report because it enshrines the eu principle of harmonising everything and refusing to allow different regions and territories to have their own way of developing. this report will not help the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own initiative report focusing on improving the effective use of the interreg initiative (a community initiative in place since 1990) in order to develop european territorial cooperation (etc). the overarching objective of etc is to lessen the influence of borders in order to reduce disparities between regions, removing the remaining obstacles to investment and cooperation across borders. the report calls for increased funds to be directed towards etc, for cross-border innovation policy and research cooperation, and for a focus on projects that promote the adaptation of social and mobility infrastructure to demographic change and migratory flows.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy i voted against this report. i believe that the uk should be good neighbours to the european union. however there is a difference in being willing to share best practices with other countries and other countries, although the eu forcing us to do so.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because it enshrines the eu principle of harmonising everything and refusing to allow different regions and territories to have their own way of developing. this report will not help the situation.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because it enshrines the eu principle of harmonising everything and refusing to allow different regions and territories to have their own way of developing. this report will not help the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission and member states to work towards preserving european territorial cooperation (etc) as an important and positive instrument for the european integration process, by allocating etc a more distinct role within cohesion policy post 2020 and increasing its budget for the next programming period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission and member states to work towards preserving etc as an important and positive instrument for the european integration process, through allocating etc a more distinct role within cohesion policy post-2020 and increasing its budget for the next programming period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it calls on the commission and member states to work towards preserving etc as an important and positive instrument for the european integration process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission and member states to work towards preserving etc as an important and positive instrument for the european integration process, through allocating etc a more distinct role within cohesion policy post-2020 and increasing its budget for the next programming period.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because it enshrines the eu principle of harmonising everything and refusing to allow different regions and territories to have their own way of developing. this report will not help the situation.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because it enshrines the eu principle of harmonising everything and refusing to allow different regions and territories to have their own way of developing. this report will not help the situation.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report due it being an eu commission project, and we do not recognise the commission’s competency in this area.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission and member states to work towards preserving european territorial cooperation (etc) as an important and positive instrument for the european integration process by allocating it a more distinct role within cohesion policy post 2020 and increasing its budget for the next programming period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission and member states to work towards preserving etc as an important and positive instrument for the european integration process, through allocating etc a more distinct role within cohesion policy post-2020 and increasing its budget for the next programming period.
in writing. – we believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for resolution, which is the interim report of the committee of inquiry that was established in december to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector (volkswagen scandal). the inquiry is ongoing and the report does not include any conclusions or recommendations. it calls for ongoing support and cooperation for the inquiry by the commission and national governments, such as providing swifter access to requested documents.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency and democracy i voted against this report. i believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law. although the report is broadly ok i oppose it because it urges member states too assist the eu committee of inquiry. i think the uk automotive industry has been through enough already.
in writing. ‒ we believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law.
in writing. ‒ whilst we must await the eventual final outcome of the emis committee’s investigation i can support this interim technical summary of progress made so far.
in writing. ‒ we believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament decided in december 2015 to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector. this interim report is not of a political nature, rather it outlines the working methods and the plan adopted so far by the emis committee and does not include any political assessments or policy conclusions. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector which outlines the working methods and plan adopted so far by the emis committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it outlines the working methods and plan adopted so far by the emis committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which outlines the working methods and plan adopted so far by the emis committee, without introducing any political assessment or anticipating policy conclusions or recommendations.
in writing. ‒ we believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law.
in writing. ‒ we believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as the commission is calling on member states to follow the lead of the european parliament. we believe that the eu should not instruct member states in any way.
in writing. – on 17 december 2015, the european parliament decided to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector. i voted in favour of the interim report which sets up working methods for the committee.
in writing. – ukip meps voted to uphold the waiver of immunity as ujhelyi was not a member of the european parliament at the time the incident took place.
in writing. ‒ this is a request to waive the parliamentary immunity of hungarian s&d mep istván ujhelyi. in hungarian law defamation is treated as a criminal offence, and criminal proceedings have been taken against the mep over comments he made on hungarian tv in april 2014 in which he opposed tamás sneider’s application for the post of vice-president of the hungarian parliament by saying about mr sneider that ‘he stated that he had a fight with a gipsy mafioso and hit him with… baseball bats’, and that ‘everyone else says he was the local boss of a mafia-style organisation, a skinhead organisation’. the comments were made before he was elected as mep but while he was a candidate. in november 2014 the hungarian court suspended the procedure and moved that the ep waive his immunity. istván ujhelyi believes the ep should defend his immunity because under hungarian law candidates for european elections have parliamentary immunity. but under european law only meps are covered, so the interpretation by juri is that immunity should be waived as he wasn’t acting in his capacity as mep when he made the comments. i believe this is the correct interpretation, so voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy i voted in favour of this waiver. i voted to waive the immunity. the event took place before ujhelyi was even an mep.
in writing. ‒ ukip mep's voted to uphold the waiver of immunity as ujhelyi was not a member of the european parliament at the time the incident took place.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to uphold the waiver of immunity as ujhelyi was not a member of the european parliament at the time the incident took place.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agreed with the stated reasons to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive the immunity.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to uphold the waiver of immunity as ujhelyi was not a member of the european parliament at the time the incident took place.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to uphold the waiver of immunity as ujhelyi was not a member of the european parliament at the time the incident took place.
in writing. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity, as this event took place before the subject was an mep.
in writing. – ukip meps voted to uphold the defence of parliamentary privilege as crocetta was a member of the european parliament at the time the incident took place and was fulfilling his role.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of defending the immunity of rosario crocetta. this immunity procedure is a rejection of the request to waive the immunity of former italian s&d rosario crocetta who is subject to criminal proceedings for alleged defamation. in 2012 crocetta made several comments relating to organised crime involvement in public procurement procedures in relation to environmental policies, including saying the certain waste-to-energy plants were controlled by the mafia. he was mep at the time, and a member of envi and first vice-chair of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. juri’s position is that there is a direct and obvious link between his activities as an mep and the comments and his immunity should be defended. i support the committee’s position.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy i voted in favour of this waiver. this is a defamation issue which took place before crocetta was an mep.
in writing. ‒ ukip mep's voted to uphold the defence of parliamentary privilege as crocetta was a member of the european parliament at the time the incident took place and was fulfilling his role.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to uphold the defence of parliamentary privilege as crocetta was a member of the european parliament at the time the incident took place and was fulfilling his role.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for defence of the parliamentary immunity of rosario crocetta.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to uphold the defence of parliamentary privilege as crocetta was a member of the european parliament at the time the incident took place and was fulfilling his role.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to uphold the defence of parliamentary privilege as crocetta was a member of the european parliament at the time the incident took place and was fulfilling his role.
in writing. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity, as this event took place before the subject was an mep.
in writing. – ukip meps voted to uphold the waiver of immunity as zarianopoulos was not fulfilling his role as a member of the european parliament: this incident took place when zarianopoulos was a member of thessaloniki city council.
in writing. ‒ this relates to an mep from the greek communist party, sotirios zarianopoulos. the greek authorities are proposing to prosecute him jointly with others in his capacity as a former member of thessaloniki city council for failing to comply with legal obligations. the case concerns the issuing in 2011 by thessaloniki city council of allegedly illegal permits to use public property for the purpose of setting up outside seating areas on pavements. zarianopoulos himself informed meps that he would vote in favour of the report that will result in the waiving of his immunity. because the proposed proceedings do not concern opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of the duties as mep, and the proceedings involve all those who were members of the city council at the time, i voted in favour of waiving immunity.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy i am in favour of this waiver. the proposed proceedings are unrelated to his status as an mep.
in writing. ‒ ukip mep's voted to uphold the waiver of immunity as zarianopoulos was not fulfilling his role as a member of the european parliament: this incident took place when zarianopoulos was a member of thessaloniki city council.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to uphold the waiver of immunity as zarianopoulos was not fulfilling his role as a member of the european parliament: this incident took place when zarianopoulos was a member of thessaloniki city council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to uphold the waiver of immunity as zarianopoulos was not fulfilling his role as a member of the european parliament: this incident took place when zarianopoulos was a member of thessaloniki city council.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to uphold the waiver of immunity as zarianopoulos was not fulfilling his role as a member of the european parliament: this incident took place when zarianopoulos was a member of thessaloniki city council.
in writing. – we abstained on this as it was merely a technical update to reflect the fact that croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was signed with china.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will slightly amend quotas on trade with china following the accession of croatia to the eu without affecting the irish economy. under the wto rules, the eu has to negotiate with its trade partners new conditions due to the accession of croatia to the eu. the commission negotiated new conditions on industrial goods – slightly lower eu tariffs on footwear and air-conditioners. on agriculture quotas, the commission will propose a regulation to increase the tonnage allocation for garlic and mushrooms from china (while maintaining the same percentage).
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this as it was merely a technical update to reflect the fact that croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was signed with china.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement; as an important actor in global trade it is important that the eu continues to set an example in abiding by wto rules and adopts a flexible approach in trade negotiations with third countries, particularly with growing markets such as china.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this as it was merely a technical update to reflect the fact that croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was signed with china.
in writing. ‒ i support the conclusion of this agreement. under wto rules china has the right to have its previous trading rights restored, following their slight erosion due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with croatian eu accession.
in writing. ‒ i supported the conclusion of this agreement. under wto rules china has the right to have its previous trading rights restored, following their slight erosion due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with croatian eu accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as labour meps support the conclusion of this agreement. under wto rules china has the right to have its previous trading rights restored, following their slight erosion due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with croatian eu accession.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this as it was merely a technical update to reflect the fact that croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was signed with china.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this as it was merely a technical update to reflect the fact that croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was signed with china.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as it is a technical update to an already established agreement.
in writing. – i supported the conclusion of this agreement. under wto rules, china has the right to have its previous trading rights restored, following their slight erosion due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with croatian accession to the eu.
in writing. – we abstained on this as it was merely a technical update to reflect the fact that croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was signed with uruguay.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. under the wto rules, the eu has to negotiate with its partners new conditions due to the accession of croatia to the eu. the commission proposes modifications related to tariff rate quotas on bovine meat. the commission is also preparing an implementing regulation regarding several tariff rate quotas. the amendment to the agreement is mainly technical, but because there is a possibility that the modification of the tariff rate quotas on beef may have a small effect on european farmers, including in ireland, i did not vote in favour but abstained.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this as it was merely a technical update to reflect the fact that croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was signed with uruguay.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement. as an important actor in global trade, it is important that the eu continues to set an example in abiding by wto rules and adopts a flexible approach in trade negotiations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this as it was merely a technical update to reflect the fact that croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was signed with uruguay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which asks the council to adopt a decision to conclude the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters with uruguay.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this as it was merely a technical update to reflect the fact that croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was signed with uruguay.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this as it was merely a technical update to reflect the fact that croatia has joined the eu since the original agreement was signed with uruguay
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as it is a technical update to an already established agreement.
in writing. – with the accession of croatia, the eu enlarged its customs union. consequently, it was required under wto rules to enter into negotiations with wto members in relation to the tariff schedule of croatia in order eventually to agree on a compensatory adjustment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report - the mandate of the mr lazarou should be renewed as he has proved himself competent and well-qualified in that time.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency and democracy i abstained from voting on this nomination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i believe the candidate’s nomination should be approved as he has proved himself competent and well-qualified for the post.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency and democracy i abstained from voting on this nomination.
in writing. ‒ i voted against leo brincat joining the court of auditors due to his pro eu stance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the commission was required to adapt the decision making rules in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts as a consequence of the adoption of the lisbon treaty. part of this includes amending the regulation on community statistics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aligns the former regulatory procedure with scrutiny to delegated and implementing acts in order to enable the systematic production of community statistics in the field of external trade to the new post-lisbon regime of delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty the commission was required to adapt the decision making rules in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. i voted in favour of the report as this file represents a compromise balancing the interests of the co-legislators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which aligns the former regulatory procedure with scrutiny to delegated and implementing acts, in order to enable the systematic production of community statistics in the field of external trade to the new post-lisbon regime of delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. – i voted for the report because it aligns the former regulatory procedure with scrutiny to delegated and implementing acts in order to enable the systematic production of community statistics in the field of external trade to the new post-lisbon regime of delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. the objective of this regulation is to transform the voluntary basis regarding the collection of data for natural gas and electricity prices charged to household end-users into an obligatory one. statistics must then be provided by member states to eurostat. the benefits of collecting the data regarding the natural gas and electricity prices that consumers pay in different member states include that it will enhance transparency and may help to protect households from profiteering. however, the report also states that its aim is to develop a fully-integrated internal energy market. sinn féin believes that more transparency and obligatory reporting in the energy market is certainly required, but we have concerns about the energy union and the impact of a ‘fully integrated internal energy market’, so for this reason abstained.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy i voted against this report. in the context of the ‘energy union strategy’ the commission has committed to preparing reports about energy costs and process every two years starting in 2016. the statistical data on gas and electricity prices are needed by the commission to monitor the internal market and will no doubt be used as the basis for more unnecessary legislation from the eu.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as the collection of statistical data will enable member states to plan their energy needs better. in addition, the collection of prices will enable the internal energy market to function better and ultimately lead to lower prices for consumers. i am pleased that the commission carried out extensive consultations with the member states governments so that the proposal put forward that was acceptable to the majority.
in writing. ‒ following my group position, i did not vote on this report, as this is a report drafted by an enf member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as its objective is to transform the voluntary basis of the collection of data for households into an obligatory one, so as to avoid problems in data collection as having been reported by several member states.
in writing. ‒ the uk as an independent country should be free to choose how to collect statistics on energy prices.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not wish the eu to have access to our internal energy statistics.
in writing. – we are against the report because we object new eu legislation in this field. we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ this own initiative report focuses on the design of a new eu electricity market in light of the aim to double the percentage of electricity produced by renewables from 25% to 50% of the total by 2030. it proposes only market-based solutions to increase capacity such as incentives and rewards. gue/ngl’s position in favour of a focus on public support for developing renewable energy, access to the grid, the right to self-generation, decentralised solutions, and energy efficiency measures, etc. have been largely ignored. the report proposes that change be based mainly on market rules whilst being ‘technology-neutral’ i.e. not favouring one form of energy over another – which is the opposite of what is required as we need a strong intervention by member states in favour of developing renewables. i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency and democracy i voted against this report. the report aims to ensure the implementation of the third energy package in all member states. it calls for a new regulatory framework and asks member states to increase the use of renewable energy in order to reduce co2 emissions from electricity generation. i voted against this report because i object to any new eu legislation in this field. i believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ we are against the report because we object to new eu legislation in this field. we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ whilst there are a number of areas of this report i agree with, the fact remains that decisions over the precise energy mix in each member state are a national competence and i oppose efforts to centralise this at a european level. this has previously been a subject of significant political debate within the uk and taking that decision-making power away from british voters is not something i can support.
in writing. ‒ we are against the report because we object to new eu legislation in this field. we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to implement a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for both consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
in writing. ‒ we are against the report because we object to new eu legislation in this field. we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ we are against the report because we object to new eu legislation in this field. we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i am against any new legislation from the eu in this field.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy. the move away from generation in large central power plants towards decentralised production from renewable energy sources (and flexibility) requires an adaptation of the current rules of electricity trading and changes to the existing market roles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one that works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable, clean and safe energy. building a true european energy union must work not only in order to be environmentally sustainable and reduce carbon emissions, but also to eliminate energy poverty, including targeted policies to ensure affordable energy for vulnerable groups, particularly vulnerable women, in line with an earlier report i co-authored on ‘meeting anti-poverty targets in light of rising household costs’. we must make sure that our energy policy is compatible and complementary to social and environmental policy.
in writing. – although the strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals, we oppose the eu strategy on heating and cooling as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damage to europe’s industry and economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own initiative report which makes proposals to direct the implementation of the commission’s strategy on the energy union launched in february this year. part of the commission’s proposal was its first ever strategy for heating and cooling to tackle the massive use of fossil fuels. this is a progressive report that emphasises the need to include specific measures for heating and cooling in the upcoming revisions of the energy efficiency directive, the res directive and the energy performance of building directive, and the new ‘energy market design’. it suggests that high-energy efficiency measures, high-performance insulation, the use of renewable sources and recovered heat are the fundamental priorities for eu’s heating and cooling strategy.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency and democracy i would like to confirm i voted against this report. the eu ‘heating and cooling strategy’ is part of the european commission´s sustainable energy security package. its main objective is to reach 2030 climate and energy targets. although this strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals i oppose this eu strategy as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damages to the uk´s industry and economy.
in writing. ‒ although the strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals, we oppose the eu strategy on heating and cooling as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damage to europe’s industry and economy.
in writing. ‒ although the strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals, we oppose the eu strategy on heating and cooling as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damage to european industry and economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – the report seeks solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu's final energy demand – i voted in favour of this report which is looking for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is looking for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – i voted in favour of this report which is looking for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ although the strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals, we oppose the eu strategy on heating and cooling as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damage to europe’s industry and economy.
in writing. ‒ although the strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals, we oppose the eu strategy on heating and cooling as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damage to europe’s industry and economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i believe it would be used as a way of bringing in new eu legislation.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which is looking for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – i voted in favour of this report which is looking for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – i voted in favour of this report which searches for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty. together with fellow socialist meps i have worked to advance a comprehensive european strategy to end energy poverty, while targeting those who are most vulnerable, particularly women facing social exclusion and single mothers.
i have supported this document, mr president, and i am glad that we are also adopting documents in this house which are aimed at supporting small and mediumsized enterprises, supporting business, and not just documents which regulate paternity leave and other matters which, in my view, should be regulated by the individual member states. supporting small and medium-sized businesses in general is very important for the prosperity of our continent and it is good that this material clearly calls on individual national governments to remove the bureaucratic burden, to simplify access to business, that i think is very important. and the passage, in my view, which concerns sme financing is also important, because access to credit is an extremely important issue for a start-up small business owner. from this point of view, i agree with the document, it is good that the money goes to cohesion policy, to support business, that is, that the money will be reproduced and not just spent.
in writing. – the eu is being hypocritical when it talks about smes. far from helping smes, its red tape and over-regulation makes the life of small business owners a misery. fortunately brexit means this will not be our problem for much longer, and we look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate in post-brexit britain.
in writing. ‒ this implementation report calls for simplified and easier access to credit for smes. it emphasises that each esi fund (esf, erdf, cohesion fund, efmm and eardf) supports 11 thematic objectives and the thematic objective 3 is about ‘enhancing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, the agricultural sector and the fisheries and aquaculture sector’ and the related investment priorities for the erdf. while it was a generally good report, it also made positive reference to the capital markets union aimed at developing non-bank lending (shadow banking), which sinn féin strongly opposes. because of this call being included, i did not vote in favour of the overall report but abstained
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency and democracy i would like to confirm i abstained on this report. of course i want the eu to enhance the competitiveness of smes but as usual the eu´s strategy for this is more eu legislation. more paperwork and red tape. far from helping smes the eu´s red tape and over regulations makes the lives of small business owners a misery. fortunately brexit means this will not be the uks problem for much longer. i look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate post-brexit.
in writing. ‒ the eu is being hypocritical when it talks about smes. far from helping smes, its red tape and over-regulation makes the life of small business owners a misery. fortunately brexit means this will not be our problem for much longer, and we look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate in post-brexit britain.
in writing. ‒ the eu is being hypocritical when it talks about smes. far from helping smes, its red tape and over-regulation makes the life of small business owners a misery. fortunately brexit means this will not be our problem for much longer, and we look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate in post-brexit britain.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as job growth and the competitiveness of business should be the focus of the eu. there are many thousands of smes in my constituency which must compete against big corporations to gain a share of the market. in calling for the reduction of red tape, easier access to credit and diversification of finance i hope this report will enable businesses to thrive in a competitive market.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my s&d colleagues in favour of this report, which underlines the need for simplification of administrative procedures and better access to financing for smes. furthermore, it stresses the role of local governments which -directly or otherwise – are involved in programme monitoring committees. however, many of the local authorities are still lacking the administrative capacity to properly participate in the operational programmes (ops). therefore technical assistance and their early involvement in the discussions regarding the ops are crucial.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my s&d and eplp colleagues in favour of this report because it underlines the need for simplification of administrative procedures and a better access to financing of smes. furthermore, it stresses the role of local governments which – directly or indirectly – are involved in programme monitoring committees. however, many of the local authorities are still lacking the administrative capacity to properly participate in the ops. therefore technical assistance and their early involvement in the discussions regarding the ops are crucial.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it underlines the need for simplification of administrative procedures and a better access to financing of smes. furthermore, it stresses the role of local governments which are involved in programme monitoring committees.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my s&d and eplp colleagues in favour of this report because it underlines the need for simplification of administrative procedures and a better access to financing of smes. furthermore, it stresses the role of local governments which – directly or indirectly – are involved in programme monitoring committees. however, many of the local authorities are still lacking the administrative capacity to properly participate in the ops. therefore technical assistance and their early involvement in the discussions regarding the ops are crucial.
in writing. ‒ the eu is being hypocritical when it talks about smes. far from helping smes, its red tape and over-regulation makes the life of small business owners a misery. fortunately brexit means this will not be our problem for much longer, and we look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate in post-brexit britain.
in writing. ‒ the eu is being hypocritical when it talks about smes. far from helping smes, its red tape and over-regulation makes the life of small business owners a misery. fortunately brexit means this will not be our problem for much longer, and we look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate in post-brexit britain.
in writing. – i voted with my s&d and eplp colleagues in favour of this report because underlines the need for simplification of administrative procedures and a better access to financing of smes. furthermore, it stresses the role of local governments which – directly or indirectly – are involved in programme monitoring committees. however, many of the local authorities are still lacking the administrative capacity to properly participate in the ops. therefore technical assistance and their early involvement in the discussions regarding the ops are crucial
in writing. ‒ i voted with my s&d and eplp colleagues in favour of this report because it underlines the need for simplification of administrative procedures and improved access to financing of smes. there is no doubt that smes represent the backbone of our economy, and we must facilitate their ability to operate and trade across europe. any strategy on smes must include support for cooperatives and alternative business models that have so much potential for a more ethical way of doing business, and can bring more flexibility and accountability to the private sector. we must also ensure that vulnerable excluded groups have access to entrepreneurship education, particularly women and girls, who face greater obstacles and prejudice. we must make sure that we share best practice on enabling women and girls to become entrepreneurs.
in writing. – we voted against this report because we feel that the countries of the alpine region, not the eu, have the right to make their own decisions. we note that in amendment 1, the eu orders member states not to spend on their own priorities, but instead only eu ones. this kind of bullying should not be allowed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is the fourth eu macro-regional strategy. eusalp covers 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are member states (italy, france, slovenia, austria and germany). the other two countries are switzerland and liechtenstein. eusalp is a vehicle for strategic investment that will benefit the region as a whole. the report tackles various important issues regarding the eusalp: multi-level governance, investments, jobs, environment, climate change and mobility.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency and democracy i would like to confirm i voted against this resolution. this reported wants the commission to set up a platform for more public and private financing for the project, in other words let’s waste more taxpayers money. this report has the audacity to order member states not to spend money on their priorities but only eu ones.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because we feel that the countries of the alpine region, not the eu, have the right to make their own decisions. we note that in amendment 1, the eu orders member states not to spend on their own priorities, but instead only eu ones. this kind of bullying should not be allowed.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because we feel that the countries of the alpine region, not the eu, have the right to make their own decisions. we note that in amendment 1, the eu orders member states not to spend on their own priorities, but instead only eu ones. this kind of bullying should not be allowed.
in writing. ‒ with my s&d colleagues, i voted in favour of this report, which is part of a strategy that covers 80 million people in 7 countries and 48 regions in the eu and outside. the report will improve access and transport in the alpine regions, improve competitiveness and cohesion and develop sustainability.
in writing. ‒ with my socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it is part of a strategy that covers 80 million people in 7 countries and 48 regions in the eu and outside. the report will improve access and transport in the alpine regions, improve competitiveness and cohesion and develop sustainability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it aims to improve access and transport in the alpine regions, enhance competitiveness and cohesion and develop sustainability.
in writing. ‒ with my socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it is part of a strategy that covers 80 million people in 7 countries and 48 regions in the eu and outside. the report will improve access and transport in the alpine regions, improve competitiveness and cohesion and develop sustainability.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because we feel that the countries of the alpine region, not the eu, have the right to make their own decisions. we note that in amendment 1, the eu orders member states not to spend on their own priorities, but instead only eu ones. this kind of bullying should not be allowed.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report because we feel that the countries of the alpine region, not the eu, have the right to make their own decisions. we note that in amendment 1, the eu orders member states not to spend on their own priorities, but instead only eu ones. this kind of bullying should not be allowed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i believe this should be left to the member states.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because innovation is an area that is continuously changing, ris 3 strategies should be constant revised. for this purpose, a review of the strategies after 2017 seems mandatory in order to boost the efficiency and effectiveness of them, taking also into account the lessons learned from the initial years of their implementation.
in writing. ‒ together with my socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it is part of a strategy that covers 80 million people in 7 countries and 48 regions in the eu and beyond. the report will improve access and transport in the alpine regions, improve competitiveness and cohesion and develop sustainability.
mr president, i supported this report, as did the others who voted for it, and i see a good idea in the trust fund, which could reduce the risk of migration from africa to europe, but what has been said here is valid. we're only at the idea stage, and we're a long way from the actual implementation. and i hope that this report will help to ensure that the individual member states, if they have already committed themselves to voluntarily putting money into this fund, that they actually do so, that there actually is such a fund, and then we can talk about how to turn this money into specific projects in africa in a meaningful way, so that the money is not lost or stolen in some way. it is a very good idea, but unfortunately we are just going to stick to the idea for now and hopefully this report will help us a little bit to get from the idea to some action.
in writing. – ukip voted against the non-legislative report. it calls on member states to contribute more money to african eu projects and wants to influence the day-to-day running of african governments. ukip does not support increased eu influence. in addition, ukip does not believe in the use of aid handouts but would rather see removal of trade barriers.
in writing. ‒ this own—initiative report aims to address existing failures in the use of the eu’s ‘emergency trust fund for stability and addressing root causes of irregular migration and displaced persons in africa’ made up of eu financing and contributions from member states. it highlights the fact that only 4.5% of the pledged funds have actually been received. but while it states it aims to promote legal migration and asylum, as well as addressing causes of displacement such as the arms trade, the trust fund is being used as another instrument to re-allocate and use development funds for control and management of migration flows without any development benefit. the report reinforces this as well as the general ‘fortress europe’ set-up. due to these negative elements in the report i could not vote in favour of the overall report but abstained.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency and democracy i would like to confirm i voted against this report. for decades we have been throwing money at africa to solve its problems. due to the political nature of africa there is no control how this money is spent in countries ravaged by dictators and corruption. it would be cynical to suggest that the eu wants to pump more money into projects in africa to influence political participation and governance. i believe that trade not aid is the answer. let´s use this money positively through education and training. give a man a fish he eats for a night, teach a man how to fish and he can eat for a lifetime.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the non-legislative report. it calls on member states to contribute more money to african eu projects and wants to influence the day-to-day running of african governments. ukip does not support increased eu influence. in addition, ukip does not believe in the use of aid handouts but would rather see removal of trade barriers.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the non-legislative report. it calls on member states to contribute more money to african eu projects and wants to influence the day to day running of african governments. ukip does not support increased eu influence. in addition, ukip does not believe in the use of aid handouts but would rather see removal of trade barriers.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission’s efforts to address the problem of global migratory flows, but stress that efforts to address this problem should not take resources away from development funds concentrating on the root causes of migration. i voted in favour of the report as it calls for steps to be taken so that the trust funds are better monitored by the european parliament, because they currently lack transparency in their use.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report; the africa trust fund is one piece in the puzzle of the eu’s response to the migration crisis. it is disappointing, however, that member states (including the uk government) have not matched the eu’s efforts in contributing to the trust fund. we support the commission’s efforts to address the problem of global migratory flows, but stress that efforts to address this problem should not take resources away from development funds concentrating on the root causes of migration. this report calls for steps to be taken so that the trust funds are better monitored by the european parliament, because they currently lack transparency in their use.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the non-legislative report. it calls on member states to contribute more money to african eu projects and wants to influence the day to day running of african governments. ukip does not support increased eu influence. in addition, ukip does not believe in the use of aid handouts but would rather see removal of trade barriers.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the non-legislative report. it calls on member states to contribute more money to african eu projects and wants to influence the day to day running of african governments. ukip does not support increased eu influence. in addition, ukip does not believe in the use of aid handouts but would rather see removal of trade barriers.
in writing. ‒ the report is calling for member states to contribute money to finance the eu trust fund. so naturally i voted against it.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because it calls for steps to be taken so that the trust funds are better monitored by the european parliament, because they currently lack transparency in their use.
in writing. ‒ with my labour and socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because the africa trust fund is one piece in the puzzle of the eu’s response to the migration crisis. it supports the commission’s efforts to address the problem of global migratory flows, but stresses that efforts to address this problem should not take resources away from development funds concentrating on the root causes of migration. this report also calls for steps to be taken so that the trust funds are better monitored by the european parliament, because they currently lack transparency in their use.
in writing. ‒ the africa trust fund is one piece in the puzzle of the eu’s response to the migration crisis. it is disappointing, however, that member states (including the uk government) have not matched the eu’s efforts in contributing to the trust fund. together with my s&d colleagues, i support the commission’s efforts to address the problem of global migratory flows, but stress that efforts to address this problem should not take resources away from development funds concentrating on the root causes of refugee flight and migration. this report calls for steps to be taken so that the trust funds are better monitored by the european parliament, because they currently lack sufficient transparency in their use.
mr president, since our glorious brexit vote we have seen a large number of economic scare stories kicked into the long grass. but this should not disguise or hide the government’s policies that are turning the screws on working people. we have seen record numbers of zero—hours contracts – zero—hours contracts that provide absolutely no job security whatsoever. the government is also set to introduce ‘pay to stay’ for council tenants. let us put that into perspective. they are levying a tax on the poorest in society. that is simply not on and we will fight it all the way. brexit was a vote by those left behind by big business, big government and the political class and we will make sure that brexit benefits those who voted to get our country back.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative report. although there were some very sensitive issues regarding equality, discrimination and helping disadvantaged people, the report went on to call for more eu action and legislation. it included calls for the reversal in the burden of proof in legal situations which would end the presumption of innocence and irrevocably alter uk criminal law. the report called for the eu to monitor national legislation, it tried to say when schools should close, and wanted changes to national taxation and social security. the only people that should take such decisions are our elected national governments, not unaccountable eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report prepared jointly by empl and femm, which calls for the commission and member states to implement measures such as ensuring affordable childcare, and paid leave including maternity, paternity, parental and carers’ leave in order to address the exclusion of women from the labour force due to caring responsibilities. on the issue of non-transferability of parental leave, sinn féin’s position is in favour of non-transferability (i.e. it cannot be transferred from the father to the mother) as it is proven to benefit the position of women in the workforce.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy i would like to confirm i voted against this report. it is another example of the eu forcing its narrow minded rules upon our daily lives. this report reverses the burden of proof in court cases. it forces men and women to take equal time off work using maternity and paternity leave, which may suit some but not all families. to top it off it calls on the uk to recognise legal documents that we don´t currently accept as official with a view to guaranteeing free movement.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative report. although there were some very sensitive issues regarding equality, discrimination and helping disadvantaged people, the report went on to call for more eu action and legislation. it included calls for the reversal in the burden of proof in legal situations which would end the presumption of innocence and irrevocably alter uk criminal law. the report called for the eu to monitor national legislation, it tried to say when schools should close, and wanted changes to national taxation and social security. the only people that should take such decisions are our elected national governments, not unaccountable eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. although it contains many positive recommendations within it which i am in full agreement with, on incentives and other help for women and men to combine their work and private lives, it is almost entirely concerned with policies that are the responsibility of national governments. the starting point for any proposed regulation in brussels should always be to ask: does this need to be done at a european level? if the answer is no, we should not support it.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative report. although there were some very sensitive issues regarding equality, discrimination and helping disadvantaged people, the report went on to call for more eu action and legislation. it included calls for the reversal in the burden of proof in legal situations which would end the presumption of innocence and irrevocably alter uk criminal law. the report called for the eu to monitor national legislation, it tried to say when schools should close, and wanted changes to national taxation and social security. the only people that should take such decisions are our elected national governments, not unaccountable eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ labour meps fully support measures to promote a greater work-life balance. we will not meet the demographic challenges we face – including the need to care for an ageing population – unless we modernise existing leave arrangements. fathers taking time out of work to care for children must be supported by the right to paternity leave. we also support greater rights for carers, more extensive maternity leave rights and better implementation of existing legislation. these changes will bring benefits to the economy as a whole, and ensure that women and men are equal earners and carers.
in writing. ‒ labour meps fully support measures to promote greater work-life balance. we will not meet the demographic challenges we face – including the need to care for an ageing population – unless we modernise existing leave arrangements. fathers taking time out of work to care for children must be supported by the right to paternity leave. we also support greater rights for carers, more extensive maternity leave rights and better implementation of existing legislation. these changes will bring benefits to the economy as a whole, and ensure that women and men are equal earners and carers.
in writing. ‒ labour meps fully support measures to promote greater work-life balance. we will not meet the demographic challenges we face unless we modernise existing leave arrangements. fathers taking time out of work to care for children must be supported by the right to paternity leave. we also support greater rights for carers, more extensive maternity leave rights and better implementation of existing legislation. these changes will bring benefits to the economy as a whole, and ensure that women and men are equal earners and carers.
in writing. ‒ labour meps fully support measures to promote greater work-life balance. we will not meet the demographic challenges we face - including the need to care for an ageing population - unless we modernise existing leave arrangements. fathers taking time out of work to care for children must be supported by the right to paternity leave. we also support greater rights for carers, more extensive maternity leave rights and better implementation of existing legislation. these changes will bring benefits to the economy as a whole, and ensure that women and men are equal earners and carers.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative report. although there were some very sensitive issues regarding equality, discrimination and helping disadvantaged people, the report went on to call for more eu action and legislation. it included calls for the reversal in the burden of proof in legal situations which would end the presumption of innocence and irrevocably alter uk criminal law. the report called for the eu to monitor national legislation, it tried to say when schools should close, and wanted changes to national taxation and social security. the only people that should take such decisions are our elected national governments, not unaccountable eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative report. although there were some very sensitive issues regarding equality, discrimination and helping disadvantaged people, the report went on to call for more eu action and legislation. it included calls for the reversal in the burden of proof in legal situations which would end the presumption of innocence and irrevocably alter uk criminal law. the report called for the eu to monitor national legislation, it tried to say when schools should close, and wanted changes to national taxation and social security. the only people that should take such decisions are our elected national governments, not unaccountable eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report - while some of it has good intentions i do not believe the eu should get involved in nation states internal labour laws.
in writing. – labour meps fully support measures to promote greater work-life balance. we will not meet the demographic challenges we face - including the need to care for an ageing population - unless we modernise existing leave arrangements. fathers taking time out of work to care for children must be supported by the right to paternity leave. we also support greater rights for carers, more extensive maternity leave rights and better implementation of existing legislation. these changes will bring benefits to the economy as a whole, and ensure that women and men are equal earners and carers.
in writing. ‒ my labour colleagues and i fully support measures to promote greater work-life balance. we will not meet the demographic challenges we face – including the need to care for an ageing population – unless we modernise existing leave arrangements. fathers taking time out of work to care for children must be supported by the right to paternity leave. we also support greater rights for carers, more extensive maternity leave rights and better implementation of existing legislation. these changes will bring benefits to the economy as a whole, and ensure that women and men are equal earners and careers.
in writing. ‒ labour meps fully support measures to promote greater work-life balance. we will not meet the demographic challenges we face – including the need to care for an ageing population – unless we modernise existing leave arrangements. fathers taking time out of work to care for children must be supported by the right to paternity leave. we also support greater rights for carers, more extensive maternity leave rights and better implementation of existing legislation. these changes will bring benefits to the economy as a whole, and ensure that women and men are equal earners and carers. i therefore voted in favour of this report which takes a clear stand against austerity and widening social inequalities. it highlights the sad reality that women are especially affected by precarious labour, zero—hours contracts, and cuts in public services. the commission and national governments must heed the call here, and take action. this is an important example of how the eu promotes gender equality and social justice, and why it is so important that we stand up for it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, following the collapse of the peace talks with the pkk (kurdistan workers’ party) last year, the attempted coup earlier this summer and the continued isis/daesh attacks on turkish soil, there are genuine internal security threats that turkey does have the right to counter. this right cannot equate, however, with enabling president erdogan and the ak party to have carte blanche to detain, arrest and remove from office all political opponents at will, under the pretence of fighting terror. neither can it justify disproportionate military force against the kurdish civilian population in the south east. as we now see tens of thousands removed from their posts in the army, the judiciary, the civil service, academia and private media outlets, with little due process, such an approach – solely on the basis that they are old gülenists and terrorists – is very difficult to justify. commissioner hahn has even hinted that there is evidence of pre-prepared lists being used in preparing purges following the coup attempt. as we now watch with renewed hope – if not total confidence – in the emerging ceasefire in syria, i am minded to comment on the recent efforts by turkey to support the free syrian army in liberating parts of the turkish-syrian border areas from isis/daesh. for much of the five-year conflict in syria, turkey’s priorities have sadly often be more focused on hindering the efforts of the ypg—pkk alliance rather than those of isis, so i hope that this recent development represents an awakening to the supreme threat that isis’ jihadism poses to turkey and the west and a new willingness to collaborate more fully with the us – and now russian – coordinated coalition to defeat this evil scourge and the threats it poses to the european union and the western world.
mr president, the eu is pandering to a country which is sliding ever closer to barbarism. the fact that this project is bribing turkey with eur 2.2 billion of eu taxpayers’ money, in a desperate bid to stem the migrant crisis of its own making, is a total political, economic and human disaster. to stem this migration, the eu was willing to bend over backwards and ignore the war on the kurds, the smuggling of oil from isis and the continual destruction of human rights in turkey. instead of dealing with the real issues of the schengen zone and ms merkel’s insane open doors policy, the eu is choosing to believe that a coup was attempted, when in reality it was set up by the turkish government to crack down on internal dissent. i am only glad that we in the uk are getting out of the eu while we can, because this policy is madness. the cowardly, self-delusionary posturing of the eu towards turkey is an utter disaster, and the accession process must end soon. it is an offence against both human rights and democracy. you are simply enabling a totalitarian regime, ms mogherini. halt all talks now and stop giving bribes to them.
mr president, we should all agree with the strong words of the high representative against the failed coup in turkey but we must insist that our support for elected governments is not interpreted as legitimising every action of this government, just as our support for due process for alleged coup plotters from the gülenists should not be interpreted as political support from europe for their movement. ms mogherini, the removal of elected mayors from the kurdish hdp party is more than a matter of concern. it is quite simply a different sort of coup, and it repeats the actions taken in the actual coup of 1980. europe must stand resolute on turkey amending anti-terror legislation if we are to make progress on visa liberalisation – legislation which the un has said denies due process and targets human-rights defenders. finally, a coup is the ultimate attack on democracy, and christian democrats must drop their opposition to opening negotiating chapters 23 and 24 on democracy. if you do not see that now, frankly, you never will.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, last year over a million people arrived on the shores of europe from africa, the middle east and beyond, an unprecedented figure that has focused the debate. this can lead some to view this as an isolated and regional phenomenon rather than a global issue, but we only have to look at jordan and lebanon to realise that mass movements are occurring across the globe. it is a mistake, however, to believe that the patterns, motivations and effects are always the same. as has always been the case throughout human history, military conflicts of course make individuals flee for safety just as horrible regimes encourage those to escape persecution. but seeking better employment and economic prospects is also no less of a natural motivation to move elsewhere. however, as poverty levels decrease across the world, the financial means for more and more people in the developing world to do this increases. in my view, the 1951 un convention on refugees is no longer adequate or fit for purposes. in my opinion, we need to accommodate this emerging phenomenon, particularly in a world of mass communications and accentuated wealth disparity, by looking at the convention again. it is therefore imperative for the un summit to look at this, in addition to state building, sustainable development and conflict prevention.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i am pleased that the un general assembly will shortly be debating the issue of migration and refugees, as this matter must be looked at from a truly global perspective. there are many international laws and norms that clarify refugee rights, and these must be adhered to by all nations. last summer’s tragic waste of life could have been avoided if chancellor merkel had not made the reckless decision to open germany, and thus the rest of the schengen area, to all who could physically make it to its borders. as we know, the wave of people taking up this call also allowed for infiltration from terrorists opposed to western values. president erdoğan has used the migration crisis to pull the european union’s strings. many concessions have been made, notably in visa liberalisation and turkish eu accession talks. opinion polls in hungary show 70% to 80% opposition to this migration deal. the eu must learn to respect the opinions of such citizens or risk further fragmentation. now the uk is looking beyond the european union, the need for mutual cooperation and cordial relations is nowhere more apparent than in affairs of migration and refugees. the uk, france and the republic of ireland must continue to cooperate effectively on our mutual borders and avoid any unnecessary and punitive restrictions on uk-eu travel arrangements.
madam president, like colleagues here, i welcome this summit. it is a first, and let us hope it leads to some concrete results and that these two compacts will actually lead to change and to new players being brought into both humanitarian aid and development aid. i think ska keller is right that we should go for a certain humility though. we do not have a perfect track record on refugee policy, and 86% of refugees live in the poorest countries on the planet, not in europe. as you said, ms mogherini, it is only in recent years that we have begun to take this issue seriously, as refugees started landing on our shores. we were not particularly bothered until that point. but you have also spoken about the need for a long—term approach and i hope that is something we will take into account when we develop the appropriate instruments. this morning we voted on the africa trust fund in this parliament, and the key message from our resolution is that we need to keep an eye on long-term development, on reducing poverty and reducing inequalities, on gender equality, tackling climate change and improving the lives and the economic and social well-being of people in the world’s poorest countries. we have got to be very careful not to divert funding into things like border controls or to use our development policy as a kind of carrot and stick, introducing a new kind of creeping conditionality into it, linked to returns and border controls. i think you get that, ms mogherini, but i think there are some in our member states who do not get it at all. they see the eu development budget as an endless pot of money which they can dip into for their new ideas. but we will not tackle the refugee crisis and the migration crisis by cutting development funding. so i think your approach on partnership is the right one and i hope you will be able to stick to it.
mr president, i welcome the summit but it appears that the historic opportunity to find a desperately needed global solution to the crisis has been lost. some governments are rejecting the plan to resettle 10% of the world’s refugees annually and have delayed any chance of a deal until 2018. we cannot allow the politics of fear to paralyse us and allow this humanitarian crisis and suffering go on. policies focused on deterrents and building walls are doomed to fail. europe must redouble its efforts in addressing the sources of the refugee crisis and not just the symptoms. this means providing more support to developing countries to get refugees access to employment and education opportunities. however, maintaining aid is not enough. one in five people in lebanon are refugees. by comparison, there is one refugee for every 530 people in the uk. we must step up the responsibility sharing, not responsibility shifting. war and instability, poverty and climate change all mean that people will keep trying to come to europe in search of refuge or a better life. only if we act globally can we find effective and lasting solutions to this crisis. europe must lead the way and set an example.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur for his diligent and comprehensive work on this report. it has focus and presents clear ideas. our relationship with tunisia remains pivotal in terms of providing stable government, economic growth and a more pluralistic society. economic development will be the bedrock of tunisia’s stability, security and transformation into a successful democracy. so let us encourage growth within the sme sector, and internal reforms to reduce bureaucracy and stimulate growth. carefully managed macroeconomic assistance can help, but it must be coupled with tangible microeconomic benefits. in other words, one can build bridges and airports, but training teachers and addressing issues like water shortage is how to really win over the tunisian man in the street. it is also essential that we share best security and defence practices in order to help defeat extremists, but let us not forget that without stability in libya, peace in tunisia will be difficult to achieve. i support the efforts of the tunisian government to modernise and liberalise their economy to meet new domestic, regional and global demands. a strong and diverse economy will create jobs, opportunity and prosperity, allowing the country to achieve its aim of participating fully in the international community. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr bashir, the question is this: you talked about security and we have heard, even this evening, about the radicalisation of many youths, but we also see that there has been improvement in the situation in libya, and this relates to the pressure on daesh and the risk of these people going to regional countries. what regional strategy can we have to help to prevent this?
blue-card answer. – i think you ask a very pertinent question, mr khan. it reminds me of when i visited the united nations and kofi annan said: security or development, which is more important? he said that development was even more important than security, because if people and youth are gainfully employed they are averse to becoming radicalised and falling into the trap of extremism. so i think we need to support tunisia by developing it and providing its youth with job opportunities.
in writing. – i welcome this report’s strong emphasis on closer collaboration between the eu and tunisia, which this year mark 40 years of cooperation. however, our objective of helping tunisia implement adequate reforms, boots employment and develop sustainable and inclusive growth will only materialise in a just and fair society. the eu must pay closer attention to the new tunisian draft economic reconciliation law which may jeopardize this process. it offers no accountability, but blatant amnesty, for the many economic crimes committed against the tunisian people, and its state. the victims are outraged, and civil society organisations are mobilizing against it. the law’s defenders argue that it is necessary to turn the page on the past in order to attract foreign investment. i fundamentally disagree. the corrupt must not escape justice. if they do, the promise of the tunisian revolution will be lost. we in europe have a duty to monitor this process carefully, as plans to implement an ambitious free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia must not come at the expense of fairness. the democratic transition process in tunisia is still a successful example of reform possible in the arab world. we must ensure that it remains that way.
madam president, the european union seems almost purpose-built to encourage social dumping. freedom of movement seemed to work okay when only a few countries were in the club and all were at similar stages of economic development, but following the various rounds of enlargement, particularly with the arrival of the a8 and a2 countries, all that changed. suddenly countries with wage levels only a fifth of those that pertained in the more established members were part of the club. without major restriction of the right of free movement, the outcome was inevitable: vast migration from poorer countries to richer ones and the undercutting of wages and conditions. yet the commission permitted only short-term transitional controls, and the uk did not even take advantage of those. rather than tailor controls to the long-term closing of the living-standards gap, the ideology of european integration took precedence and immigration soared. the result in the uk has been beneficial to big corporations – an endless supply of cheap and compliant labour – but terrible for pre-existing working-class communities, with pay and conditions undermined and competition for public resources, such as social housing and school places, greatly intensified. this was not the only factor behind the brexit victory in our referendum in june, but it was a major one. to sum up, as an ardent brexiteer, i must offer you my heartfelt thanks as a union for your bureaucratic inflexibility and your political incompetence. britain will soon have within its grasp the national controls needed to support working people and ensure their wages and conditions are not grievously undermined, but other countries of northern and western europe will have no such powers. more fool them!
mr president, after receiving the copa cogeca letter outlining a so-called threat to our agriculture as a result of this agreement, i went immediately to look at the opinion from the agricultural committee on this report, and guess what? there isn’t one, because the agriculture committee decided that it was such a threat to our agriculture it was not even worth doing an opinion on this report. this is a ridiculous last minute scare story that has been thrown into the pot here. on the other side of the coin, some members think that the agreement is a threat to sadc countries and to their economies. as we have heard, though, from virtually every speaker, this is an asymmetrical agreement. it contains safeguards for infant industries and it protects sensitive products. as we have just heard, if we reject this agreement the situation is worse for african countries because they will have to revert to gsp or to other less—satisfactory regimes. i welcome what the commissioner said about the sustainable development chapter. i am glad it is going to have adequate funding and i look forward to civil society being fully involved in monitoring this epa. i am personally absolutely convinced that a properly implemented epa with accompanying measures such as aid for trade will be good for africa. bear in mind that it will also be good for europe, because we are more and more focused on trying to deal with the migration flows from africa. a successful economic partnership between africa and europe can benefit africa economically and benefit europe by reducing those migration flows. i will be supporting this epa tomorrow.
mr president, we expect consistency and policy coherence from the commission, especially when it comes to our relations with developing countries, but this agreement is not consistent with the eu’s sustainable development goals. the weak sustainable development chapter provides for no mandatory monitoring or enforcement. we have consistently asked the commission for improvements, over more than a year, to give civil society a role in the monitoring of this agreement and to empower whistleblowers in the region, but it is only now, on the eve of the vote, that the commission is responding – not with concrete legal proposals or commitments, but with promises of annual general dialogue without clarifying the follow—up to civil society complaints. i am sorry but this is not enough. this is not a proper sustainable development chapter or monitoring. therefore, i agree with civil society in the region and with the united trade union movement in the eu and southern africa that this agreement currently falls far too short of the mark.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and all my co-authors, because this has been quite an easy question to put together, for a change. i am particularly concerned though, about wildlife trafficking, as we all are, and it is vital that we make sure that the rules, as represented in cites, are watertight so that we can be absolutely clear there is no ambiguity between what is legal and what is illegal. to that end, i support the position of some colleagues on trophy hunting, that it should be outlawed. in that sense i do not support the commissioner’s view: this is perhaps a small point but i really do believe it is important that we make sure we have zero tolerance on these issues. the species-specific recommendations are obviously very varied, but most of the representations i receive from members of the public – and there are a lot of them as this is a very important subject – are about ivory. ivory is totemic. i know we spend a lot of time talking about ivory, but it is really important that we get ivory right. to that end, i would remind you of the maxim that has been in use for the last five years or so, namely that all ivory, even if legally sourced, fuels the ivory trade. i am very proud of the fact that the uk already has a ban on the export of pre-convention raw ivory and i would prefer to see this extended to all member states and made part of the eu negotiation brief. i would ask you, commissioner, to raise yet again the issue of mammoth ivory, which is increasingly being mined and is increasingly muddying the waters when it comes to seeing what is legal and what is illegal.
in writing. – this resolution is a historic opportunity to end the global ivory trade and save elephants from extinction. every year 30 000 elephants are slaughtered by poachers who sell their ivory tusks illegally for massive profits. we must save these wonderful animals for future generations, we simply cannot allow this barbaric trade to continue. the european parliament calls upon member states to ban all imports, exports and commercial sales of ivory products until wild elephant populations are no longer threatened by poaching. to support this ban, all countries must also introduce tougher measures to tackle corruption, strengthen controls at border crossing points and put in place stringent penalties against criminal groups trafficking illegal wildlife products.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in june this year the british people voted to leave the eu. (applause from some quarters)but the voices of discontent reach far beyond the english channel. in many other eu countries the warning signals are there and, if they continue to be ignored, do not be surprised if others ask to follow. the ecr group that i lead has meps from 18 member states, who want an eu that works better for their voters and for their countries. our fear is that ‘project europe’ has been set to cruise control and its drivers are unwilling to apply the brakes, whilst they ignore the warning signals. today was billed as a relaunch, but sadly it is fundamentally the same mantra we have heard year after year: more military integration, more requests for money from member states, more debt for tomorrow’s children to keep today’s socialists happy. more, more, more. but the more europe you build, the more detached our citizens feel. the more you propagate eu supranationalism, the more nationalism has arisen in our member states. the more you condemn or ignore scepticism, the more likely the prospect of a president le pen or a prime minister wilders. i know that scares most of us, but dismissing people’s legitimate concerns will simply drive voters into their arms. this debate does not have to be about left versus right or about eurosceptics versus integrationists. this debate should be about delivering security, delivering jobs and delivering opportunities for our constituents. the ecr group believes that we can have greater cooperation where it counts without greater centralisation. we believe the eu can do less, but do it better. the next eu treaty needs to strip back and simplify what the eu does – an eu which gives the flexibility of a network, rather than rigidity of a bloc, because diversity is one of the european union’s greatest strengths. yet diversity and mutual recognition are being challenged by the mantra of harmonisation, a common eurozone budget, eu—wide unemployment insurance and tax harmonisation. diversity should also mean treating all countries equally, but today some countries are being treated as a more equal than others. we see france getting away with flouting eu budget rules, and i quote, ‘because it’s france’. we see mrs merkel’s germany breaking every immigration rule in the book. we see old europe getting away with it, while countries in central and eastern europe are actively targeted by the commission. so, instead of more rules that are broken, how about fewer rules; rules that everyone signs up to in good faith? we also need democracy and openness to be reinvigorated within this chamber and within our institutions. we need to see an end to the so-called grand coalition where decisions are taken by only five men from only four countries in only two political groups. so let me remind these five gentlemen that the european parliament has 751 meps from eight political groups, and it is time you started to respect every one of them. my group, and the people who elected them in 18 countries, want the eu to respond to the warning signals, to go in a new direction and to deliver meaningful reform. reform that does not think that the eu has all the answers. reform which unleashes the spirit of enterprise which once made europe great. and reform that helps us compete and provide opportunities for our citizens in a globalised world. (applause)
blue-card question. – mr verhofstadt, congratulations on your new appointment to manage, on behalf of parliament, the negotiations with britain regarding brexit. i always enjoy listening to you because you are always logical, you are always consistent about what you believe in and you described how europe should forge ahead with all of the things that we were told during the referendum campaign were not going to happen anyway. you know they are, we know they are and that is what you believe in. would you agree with me that britain should leave the european union as quickly as possible, that article 50 is just a very long drawn out, unnecessary process, and we should go speedily so that you can get on with what you want to do and we can get on with what we want to do? i will assist you in any way i can to make that possible. i have written a little book on how it can be done quickly, and i will give you a copy after the session. do you agree? (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this annual tradition of the state of the union speech was started by your predecessor, mr barroso, and perhaps now is a good opportunity – and i am sure the whole house would like to join me – to congratulate mr barroso on his new, highly paid job at goldman sachs. is it not all wonderful? whatever happens, mr juncker, i am sure the big boys will look after you. having listened to what you have said this morning, all i can say is that i am pleased we voted to leave. it is clear that no lessons are going to be learned from brexit. indeed, it was the usual recipe: more europe, and in this particular case, more military europe – a european army, common defence, and already in this house people are saying, well, the americans will not be here anymore and we will have to stand alone with our own military structures. instead of a project of peace, i would have thought this is probably a very dangerous move. it is not going to change the rapid growth in opposition parties across the whole of europe. it is not going to stop the central and eastern european countries from saying no to mrs merkel’s migrant quotas, and i think you have got a lot more referenda to look forward to. but in terms of brexit, you are probably right to be slightly critical of the british government who, i agree, ought to get on with it. but is pretty clear that the eu is getting on with it, and you have already appointed your divorce lawyers. on behalf of the european parliament we have got guy verhofstadt: he is the man who is going to be negotiating brexit. if you were to think of this building as a temple, mr verhofstadt is the high priest, a fanatic. in fact, there is only one real nationalist in the room and it is you, mr verhofstadt, because you want flags, anthems and armies. you are an eu nationalist, and i frankly think that this appointment amounts to pretty much a declaration of war on any sensible negotiating process. if you stick to the dogma of saying that for reciprocal tariff-free access to the single market we must maintain the free movement of people, then you will inevitably drive us towards no deal – no deal on trading under wto rules for the united kingdom, which is actually not too bad because it is very much better and cheaper than the current deal we have got. but for hundreds of thousands of german car workers and french wine producers, it is potentially very bad news, because we are their biggest market; their most profitable market in the world. i would argue that what we really need is to have a sensible, common-sense approach, and for this parliament to recognise that it has made a mistake and to find somebody who actually likes the united kingdom to lead these talks. (applause)
blue-card question. – madame le pen, will you be calling for frexit in the very near future, and will you be pursuing it in your presidential campaign?
mr president, after the democratic decision of the people of the united kingdom on 23 june, the eu and the uk must define and build a new and mutually beneficial relationship – one based on cooperation and trade, security and prosperity. this does not just make sense for the uk, but for the eu too. we are the world’s fifth largest economy, the biggest marketplace for german cars and the largest importer from french farms. the reality is that europe needs us. now we must work together in a new way for the benefit of all. the united kingdom is a great nation. it will thrive on its own, but europe is her ally. let this negotiation not end in a fruitless fistfight. for northern ireland, leaving the european union presents both opportunities and challenges. the peace secured in northern ireland was supported here, and we thank you. in due course our land border will become an external eu border. that in itself must not mean that we cast aside the progress that has been achieved. in the years that lie ahead, northern ireland will continue to look outward to both europe and the world – a shining example of a region where peace and democracy triumphed over terror and conflict. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – northern ireland wisely voted to remain, but, sadly, the rest of the country did not follow suit. you mentioned the fact there will be a hard border between northern ireland and the republic, and you think that is going to be an opportunity. i wonder how it is going to be an opportunity, when it impedes trade and the free movement of people between the republic and northern ireland. how are you going to deal with that hard border without seriously disadvantaging your province?
blue-card answer. – thank you, mr tannock, for your question. northern ireland did indeed vote to remain, but i am very proud to be part of the united kingdom. the united kingdom as a whole voted to leave the european union and i respect and admire the decision of the rest of my fellow country people. in northern ireland we have a situation where northern ireland will be the only part of the united kingdom that does have a land border with another european member state, and that in itself will pose a challenge. i am confident that as we had the common travel area, for example, before we belonged to the european union, we will be able to manage that border so that the progress we have made will not stop.
mr president, the eu is not perfect. president juncker accepts that and i welcome some of the initiatives that he mentioned in order to tackle challenges such as those in the areas of job creation, connectivity and social justice. president juncker also said that the eu should empower citizens and embrace solidarity. well, the people of scotland voted in june to remain in the european union to constructively continue to work on collective challenges. cross-party efforts are being made right now in scotland to identify all possible means of protecting scotland’s position, particularly with access to the single market. the scottish government is working hard to persuade the uk government to recognise the democratic will of the people of scotland in formulating its negotiating position, if it ever gets round to that. i hope that the commission and the council, and this parliament, will be open to imaginatively finding a way to reflect the democratic will of people in scotland. that would be solidarity.
madam president, there are multiple problems facing europe, and brexit is of course one of them. it will be the mother of all divorce cases, and if done too hastily will be a disaster for both sides. the list of issues that need to be addressed and solved is huge and every day we discover new ones that were never mentioned by the leave campaign in the national referendum in britain. the british government has not triggered article 50 because it still has no clue on what it wants to do about most of these issues. the big one, of course, is whether it wants to try to secure a place remaining in the single european market – but then, of course, it has to accept all the common rules for the common market – or whether it wants to leave entirely and face a tariff barrier and a regulatory barrier to our main export market. it is an unpalatable choice, and whichever way the government goes on this has huge implications for britain and europe, but it will also see people who voted ‘leave’ complain, rightly, that this is not what they were told, and not what they voted for. brexit is not a settled issue, neither at european level nor at national level, where calls for a rethink continue to grow. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – i am grateful to mr corbett for giving way, and i pay tribute to his own esprit européen within this house consistently and over the years. i very much join his condemnation of a deeply dishonest leave campaign that made a number of promises that now simply cannot be fulfilled and will unravel over the years. but would he agree with me that we really must ensure a common uk approach within this, which must respect and represent the interests of london, gibraltar, scotland and northern ireland, and also that the timescale on this must give us the flexibility to work out the plurality of views within the uk in order to reach some sort of common position to present to our european friends?
blue-card answer. – yes, i agree entirely that this situation has thrown up a multitude of problems that were never properly explored before the decision took place, and certainly never pointed to by those who wished to drag britain out of the european union. we have to make the best of a terrible situation, working together, all parts of the uk and of europe, and at some point when people see the reality of what brexit really entails rather than the promises that were made – that it would solve every problem, that it would be wonderful, that it would be paradise – there will be many in britain who will say that they want to think again about this.
madam president, mr juncker mentioned the terrible murder of arkadiusz jozwik. hate crime is despicable. six people have been arrested for this murder. but, mr juncker, you did not mention the hundreds and hundreds of local people from harlow in essex who stand united to condemn this crime. the vast majority of british people want a calm and peaceful negotiation for their future relationship with europe. there are deep trade links between the uk and the rest of the eu; if we are forced to rip the uk out of the single market without a long-term plan, there will be economic consequences across all of europe. negotiators on both sides of the english channel need to take time to get this right. finally, mrs georgieva, you would be great in the un.
mr president, i was told again and again in the brexit debate that there would not be a european army, that there would not be an independent military force in the european union. well, here it is. here it is. and the most interesting comment was not mr juncker’s when he talked about ‘parallel command structures’; it was mr verhofstadt’s, when he basically said ‘go away america, we can do this on our own’. you cannot run these two structures in parallel with each other without one competing against the other. and once you have got an independent military force, then the argument becomes stronger to start using it. i remember, mr verhofstadt, back at the time of libya and elsewhere you were itching for the eu to militarily start getting involved, and for a project that prides itself on being about peace and reconciliation, i think what is being proposed today is potentially very dangerous and i wonder, if you put it to referendums around the european union, whether people would endorse it. i do not think so.
blue-card question. – mr verhofstadt, does it not concern you, as someone who calls for closer military cooperation within the european union, that there are three traditionally neutral member states within the european union – notably the republic of ireland, sweden and austria? what does that say for those countries’ neutrality?
mr president, it is quite nice to be able to speak after guy verhofstadt in this house for once. since we overtook his group at the european elections i have not had the chance. but, guy, i am not saying that this house is a cause of nationalism. however, if you continue to ignore the concerns of citizens, if you continue to focus on eu integration rather than on creating jobs, if you continue to press on regardless, you will drive voters into the arms of those whom you call populists. yes, the uk will leave the european union, but it is not as though there is some gain for any of us. we need each other to be prosperous, and the uk and the eu will continue to cooperate. the eu and the uk both need policies to provide security, to deliver jobs and to offer opportunities for citizens in all the countries represented here today. i am afraid, however, that what we heard today was not a state of the union. it was the same old mantras: it was a state of the reunion.
blue-card question. – mr weber, i do not know if you have visited paris recently. i had not been there for some considerable time but, when i went through the streets of paris changing trains, i was shocked by the number of people sleeping in major boulevards in paris. if you do not think that is a problem, i do not know what is. and as for young people, young people are supporting brexit in the uk and i think more and more people in france and other countries are also doing that. do you agree with me?
mr president, i wrote to president schulz on 4 february this year on a most important matter and i have not received the courtesy of an acknowledgment or a reply. i know from conversations with colleagues from across the political groups that this is not an isolated case. can i ask one of the ushers to take this letter and, in front of 751 witnesses, to see that it is delivered to president schulz’s office?
mr president, consider switzerland – helvetia – a prosperous, peaceful, successful country with a high level of democratic satisfaction, with the highest standard of living in the world, according to the un, and with an amicable relationship with its neighbours in the eu. switzerland is a partner and friend of the european union, duplicating on a bilateral basis some of the obligations that we have to undertake as eu member states but retaining the right to make its own laws. that seems to me a useful model for countries that are in this part of the world but outside the jurisdiction of eu institutions. there is nothing that precludes us working together as sovereign countries. obviously, britain is not going to copy completely what switzerland does. we are going to be much more engaged, for example, as a member of nato, in the defence of europe. however, the idea of being part of the common market but outside a political union, supporting our friends and allies as they pursue closer integration but standing aside from it – surely that is a useful model that can be profitably extended not just to britain but also to other european countries.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative consent procedure (single vote) report. the protocol would force switzerland to gradually open its borders to croatia over a 10-year period. the swiss people voted to reject mass immigration in a referendum in 2014. so to respect the wishes of the swiss people, ukip voted against the eu’s forcing them to open their borders to croatia.
in writing. ‒ this report tried to remedy an issue that has been ongoing since the swiss ‘against mass immigration’ referendum in 2014 and the introduction of a new article 121a into the constitution, which states that switzerland regulates immigration, that residence permit restrictions and quotas may be introduced on the basis of switzerland’s overall economic interests, and that businesses are obliged to give swiss nationals priority when hiring staff. according to the eu, article 121a is not compatible with the agreement on the free movement of persons. this means that a solution needs to be found. the protocol agreed provides for a seven-year transition period in which switzerland and croatia can maintain limits on the emigration of their citizens to each other’s countries. the quotas are progressive in that switzerland may gradually open its borders year by year to croatian workers. i voted in favour of the report from a technical point of view in order to ensure that croatia will be included in the bilateral agreement between the eu and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ the swiss people recently voted in a referendum to end the ‘free movement of persons’ (a standard euphemism for unlimited immigration). consequently, as a sovereign democratic nation state, their will should be respected. unlimited immigration is not a requirement of trade, or indeed of free and fair trade. it is a political principle of the european union, which it seeks to impose upon third countries. i do not believe in that principle, and therefore i cannot support the protocol which extends this provision to croatia. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative consent procedure (single vote) report. the protocol would force switzerland to gradually open its borders to croatia over a 10-year period. the swiss people voted to reject mass immigration in a referendum in 2014. so to respect the wishes of the swiss people, ukip voted against the eu’s forcing them to open their borders to croatia.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative consent procedure (single vote) report. the protocol would force switzerland to gradually open its borders to croatia over a 10-year period. the swiss people voted to reject mass immigration in a referendum in 2014. so to respect the wishes of the swiss people, ukip voted against the eu’s forcing them to open their borders to croatia.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. the protocol would force switzerland to gradually open its borders to croatia over a 10-year period. the swiss people voted to reject mass immigration in a referendum in 2014. so to respect the wishes of the swiss people, ukip voted against the eu forcing them to open their borders to croatia.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. the protocol would force switzerland to gradually open its borders to croatia over a 10-year period. the swiss people voted to reject mass immigration in a referendum in 2014. so to respect the wishes of the swiss people, ukip voted against the eu forcing them to open their borders to croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted to indicate parliament’s support for this protocol, which would extend the free movement accord between the eea and the swiss confederacy to croatia. as this agreement is linked to the fundamental principle of free movement of persons, this agreement will pave the way for the re-entry of switzerland’s participation in the erasmus+ programme. this will allow students from the uk to enjoy the possibility of participating in an exchange with swiss universities.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. the protocol would force switzerland to gradually open its borders to croatia over a 10-year period. the swiss people voted to reject mass immigration in a referendum in 2014. so to respect the wishes of the swiss people, ukip voted against the eu forcing them to open their borders to croatia.
in writing. – ukip have voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. the protocol would force switzerland to gradually open its borders to croatia over a 10—year period. the swiss people voted to reject mass immigration in a referendum in 2014. so to respect the wishes of the swiss people, ukip voted against the eu forcing them to open their borders to croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted to give the consent of the european parliament to this enactment which would extend the free movement accord between the eea and the swiss confederacy to croatia. as this agreement is linked to the fundamental principle of free movement of persons, this agreement will pave the way for the re-entry of switzerland’s participation in the erasmus+ programme. this will allow students from the uk to enjoy the possibility of participating in an exchange with swiss universities.
in writing. ‒ i voted to give the consent of the european parliament to this enactment which would extend the free movement accord between the eea and the swiss confederacy to croatia. as this agreement is linked to the fundamental principle of free movement of persons, this agreement will pave the way for the re-entry of switzerland’s participation in the erasmus+ programme. this will allow students from the uk to enjoy the possibility of participating in an exchange with swiss universities.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. the protocol would force switzerland to gradually open its borders to croatia over a 10—year period. the swiss people voted to reject mass immigration in a referendum in 2014. so to respect the wishes of the swiss people, ukip voted against the eu forcing them to open their borders to croatia.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. the protocol would force switzerland to gradually open its borders to croatia over a 10—year period. the swiss people voted to reject mass immigration in a referendum in 2014. so to respect the wishes of the swiss people, ukip voted against the eu forcing them to open their borders to croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted to give the consent of the european parliament to this enactment which would extend the free movement accord between the eea and the swiss confederacy to croatia. as this agreement is linked to the fundamental principle of free movement of persons, it will pave the way for the re-entry of switzerland’s participation in the erasmus+ programme. this will allowing students from the uk to enjoy the possibility of participating in an exchange with swiss universities.
in writing. ‒ i voted to give the consent of the european parliament to this enactment which would extend the free movement accord between the eea and the swiss confederacy to croatia. as this agreement is linked to the fundamental principle of free movement of persons, this agreement will pave the way for the re-entry of switzerland’s participation in the erasmus+ programme. this will allow students from the uk to enjoy the possibility of participating in exchanges with swiss universities.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this ‘summit’ is a talking shop for high-level eu officials, lobbyists and european ngos to discuss employment and economic issues. it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit (tss) for growth and employment was a meeting with the council presidency, the commission and the social partners (10 trade unionists and 10 business). it took place at least once a year before the spring european council. the whole idea was to have an exchange of views on employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs before the council meeting. parliament was not mentioned but the chair of the committee on employment, and social affairs (empl) was always invited to the summit. this vote was to give consent to the council recommendation and re-ratify the decision. parliament has adopted a report calling for the empl chair to be formally invited. this report was adopted after the council decision and is not reflected in that draft decision. the empl committee and its chair were not happy about the decision and only supported the draft decision once a letter from the presidency of the council and the president of the commission outlined that the empl chair would be invited to all tsss. after that was done the committee gave consent. my gue/ngl colleague thomas handel, chair of the empl committee, supported the decision. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against approval of the council decision. i have concerns that this may place too much emphasis upon the role of lobbyists, and too little upon the citizens of the nation states within the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this ‘summit’ is a talking shop for high—level eu officials, lobbyists and european ngos to discuss employment and economic issues. it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this ‘summit’ is a talking shop for high—level eu officials, lobbyists and european ngos to discuss employment and economic issues. it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this ‘summit’ is a talking shop for high—level eu officials, lobbyists and european ngos to discuss employment and economic issues. it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this ‘summit’ is a talking shop for high—level eu officials, lobbyists and european ngos to discuss employment and economic issues. it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision as it aims to enable social partners at european level to contribute, in the context of their social dialogue, to the various components of the european union’s strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision, as it aims to enable the social partners at european level to contribute, in the context of their social dialogue, to the various components of the european union’s strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this ‘summit’ is a talking shop for high—level eu officials, lobbyists and european ngos to discuss employment and economic issues. it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this ‘summit’ is a talking shop for high—level eu officials, lobbyists and european ngos to discuss employment and economic issues. it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision as it aims at enabling the social partners at european level to contribute, in the context of their social dialogue, to the various components of the european union’s strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision as it aims at enabling the social partners at european level to contribute, in the context of their social dialogue, to the various components of the european union’s strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this ‘summit’ is a talking shop for high—level eu officials, lobbyists and european ngos to discuss employment and economic issues. it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this ‘summit’ is a talking shop for high—level eu officials, lobbyists and european ngos to discuss employment and economic issues. it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision, as it aims to enable the social partners at european level to contribute, in the context of their social dialogue, to the various components of the union’s strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision as it aims at enabling the social partners at european level to contribute, in the context of their social dialogue, to the various components of the european union’s strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. – ukip have decided to abstain on this second reading because the uk has an exception.
in writing. ‒ this was approved without a vote. however, i wish to place on record that i have concerns that there is no need for this matter to be subject to legislation across 28 different countries. the uk should be quite capable of taking these decisions for itself.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided to abstain on this second reading because the uk has an exception.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided to abstain on this second reading because the uk has an exception.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided to abstain on this second reading because the uk has an exemption.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided to abstain on this second reading because the uk has an exception.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour colleagues, i welcome the close cooperation between the river commissions, the united nations economic commission for europe and the european institutions in order to increase efficiency and much needed legal clarity for the inland navigation sector, which mainly consists of smes. i fully support the coherent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels across europe. we would urge the uk to ensure that all aspects of our standards follow best practice in this area including on inspections.
in writing. ‒ labour welcomes the close cooperation between the river commissions, the united nations economic commission for europe and the european institutions in order to increase efficiency and provide much-needed legal clarity for the inland navigation sector, which mainly consists of smes. we fully support the coherent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels all around europe. we would urge the uk to ensure that all aspects of our standards follow best practice in this area, including on inspections.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided to abstain on this second reading because the uk has an exemption.
in writing. – diane james and the ukip meps decided to abstain on this second reading because the uk has an exception.
in writing. ‒ labour welcomes the close cooperation between the river commissions, the united nations economic commission for europe and the european institutions in order to increase efficiency and much needed legal clarity for the inland navigation sector, which mainly consists of smes. we fully support the coherent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels all around europe. we would urge the uk to ensure that all aspects of our standards follow best practice in this area including on inspections.
in writing. ‒ labour welcomes the close cooperation between the river commissions, the united nations economic commission for europe and the european institutions in order to increase efficiency and much needed legal clarity for the inland navigation sector, which mainly consists of smes. we fully support the coherent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels all around europe. we would urge the uk to ensure that all aspects of our standards follow best practice in this area including on inspections.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided to abstain on this second reading because the uk has an exception.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided to abstain on this second reading because the uk has an exception.
in writing. ‒ labour welcomes the close cooperation between the river commissions, the united nations economic commission for europe and the european institutions in order to increase efficiency and provide much-needed legal clarity for the inland navigation sector, which mainly consists of smes. we fully support the coherent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels all around europe. we would urge the uk to ensure that all aspects of our standards follow best practice in this area, including on inspections.
in writing. ‒ labour welcomes the close cooperation between the river commissions, the united nations economic commission for europe and the european institutions in order to increase efficiency and much needed legal clarity for the inland navigation sector, which mainly consists of smes. we fully support the coherent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels all around europe. we would urge the uk to ensure that all aspects of our standards follow best practice in this area including on inspections.
in writing. – we abstained on this vote. despite our abstention, we note with concern the eu tendency to bully poor countries in trade ‘partnerships’. we hope that the eu will behave more fairly towards its trade partners in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the eu signed an economic partnership agreement (epa) in june 2016 with the southern african development community (sadc) economic partnership agreements (epa) group, which includes botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, south africa and swaziland. epas, created in 2000, are trade agreements that were meant to safeguard african caribbean and pacific (acp) countries’ preferential access to eu markets. epas are changing this preferential access from non-reciprocal to reciprocal access, meaning that acp countries are required to open their markets to eu imports and, furthermore, require liberalisation in other areas such as investment and services. this will have serious negative consequences for local populations in the sadc and the strong opposition from these states and civil society mean negotiations have lasted more than a decade.
in writing. ‒ i have some concerns over this partnership agreement because of its impact on poorer countries, and the potential for them to be exploited.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote. despite our abstention, we note with concern the eu tendency to bully poor countries in trade ‘partnerships’. we hope that the eu will behave more fairly towards its trade partners in the future.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote. despite our abstention, we note with concern the eu tendency to bully poor countries in trade ‘partnerships’. we hope that the eu will behave more fairly towards its trade partners in the future.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote. despite our abstention, we note with concern the eu tendency to bully poor countries in trade ‘partnerships’. we hope that the eu will behave more fairly towards its trade partners in the future.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the final, long overdue, agreement on this economic partnership with southern african development community countries, many of which are long-standing friends and allies of the uk. it’s vital for their current and future prosperity that they continue to have full access to the eu market.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote. despite our abstention, we note with concern the eu tendency to bully poor countries in trade ‘partnerships’. we hope that the eu will behave more fairly towards its trade partners in the future.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote. despite our abstention, we note with concern the eu tendency to bully poor countries in trade ‘partnerships’. we hope that the eu will behave more fairly towards its trade partners in the future.
in writing. – we abstained on this vote. despite our abstention, we note with concern the eu tendency to bully poor countries in trade ‘partnerships’. we hope that the eu will behave more fairly towards its trade partners in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as the eu-sadc epa can represent an important element of the eu strategy for africa by contributing to economic and sustainable development in the region. we have received reassurances from the commission concerning strengthening of the monitoring structures and civil society involvement in the implementation phase. labour meps will follow the implementation of the deal very closely to ensure that civil society is properly involved.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote. despite our abstention, we note with concern the eu tendency to bully poor countries in trade ‘partnerships’. we hope that the eu will behave more fairly towards its trade partners in the future.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote. despite our abstention, we note with concern the eu tendency to bully poor countries in trade ‘partnerships’. we hope that the eu will behave more fairly towards its trade partners in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the eu—sadc epa can represent an important element of the eu strategy for africa by contributing to economic and sustainable development in the region. we have received reassurances by the commission concerning the strengthening of the monitoring structures and civil society involvement in the implementation phase. sadc epa includes a trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapter. the agreement is based on cotonou agreement’s provisions on human rights, democracy and good governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report in line with the etuc and some of my s&d colleagues’ position, as this new free trade agreement with africa will require african countries to open their market not only on goods but also on services, investments and intellectual property, which might weaken their economic development. as a supporter of the alternative trade mandate i have worked to promote the view that trade must always put people and planet ahead of profit. many studies (south centre, ilo, etc.) show the negative impact that these kinds of agreements can have on sustainable development. the epa in the current form would jeopardise food security and have an adverse impact on the agricultural sector of the sadc countries. in the long term, the epa could impede industrialisation. the agreement will also lead to a loss of government tariff revenue that is used for measures such as to finance social protection. in view of this concern, i urge my colleagues in parliament to engage in negotiations that put the respect of labour rights, the agenda 2030, the growth and development of sadc countries, food security, social protection and the environment at the top of our priorities.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. the international labour organisation (a non-eu international body) created rules to do with the health and safety of workers in the fishing sector. ukip is in favour of complying with international law, but believes the eu should not have a say in whether a member state signs up to such agreements in their own right. the resolution went to call for an eu council directive on the issue, the details of which are very vague at the moment. the only people that should decide such issues are elected to accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. voting against this non-legislative resolution would in no way obstruct the process of signing up to the ilo agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the immediate adoption and implementation of the work in fishing convention which was agreed with social partners. the convention was adopted by the international labour organisation in 2007. the convention aims to ensure that fishers have good conditions of work on fishing vessels. it includes minimum requirements regarding conditions of service, accommodation and food, occupational health and safety, medical care and social security. the resolution notes that the commission has proposed a council directive implementing the agreement between the social partners concerning implementation of the convention, and recommends the immediate adoption of the council directive, as requested by the social partners.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this on principle, because the text calls for a new eu directive without specifying the content.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for resolution. the international labour organisation (non-eu international body) created rules to do with the health and safety of workers in the fishing sector. ukip is in favour of complying with international law, but believe the eu should not have a say whether a member state signs up to such agreements in their own right. the resolution went to call for an eu council directive on the issue, the details of which are very vague at the moment. the only people that should decide such issues are elected an accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. voting against this non-legislative resolution would in no way obstruct the process of signing up to the ilo agreement.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for resolution. the international labour organisation (non-eu international body) created rules to do with the health and safety of workers in the fishing sector. ukip is in favour of complying with international law, but believe the eu should not have a say whether a member state signs up to such agreements in their own right. the resolution went to call for an eu council directive on the issue, the details of which are very vague at the moment. the only people that should decide such issues are elected an accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. voting against this non-legislative resolution would in no way obstruct the process of signing up to the ilo agreement.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for resolution. the international labour organisation (non-eu international body) created rules to do with the health and safety of workers in the fishing sector. ukip is in favour of complying with international law, but believe the eu should not have a say whether a member state signs up to such agreements in their own right. the resolution went to call for an eu council directive on the issue, the details of which are very vague at the moment. the only people that should decide such issues are elected an accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. voting against this non-legislative resolution would in no way obstruct the process of signing up to the ilo agreement.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. the international labour organisation (a non-eu international body) created rules to do with the health and safety of workers in the fishing sector. ukip is in favour of complying with international law, but believes the eu should not have a say in whether a member state signs up to such agreements in their own right. the resolution went to call for an eu council directive on the issue, the details of which are very vague at the moment. the only people that should decide such issues are elected to accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. voting against this non-legislative resolution would in no way obstruct the process of signing up to the ilo agreement.
in writing. ‒ the fishing industry has grown considerably. this growth, however, hasn’t come without a cost – in terms of working conditions and occupational safety – to full and part-time workers in the fishing sector. people in the fishing sector often face harsh or difficult working conditions: they may spend long periods at sea and are frequently exposed to unpredictable and dangerous conditions. adopting these international labour standards for what is one of the world’s most dangerous professions is extremely important to protect workers and provide them with decent working conditions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. the international labour organisation (a non-eu international body) created rules to do with the health and safety of workers in the fishing sector. ukip is in favour of complying with international law, but believes the eu should not have a say in whether a member state signs up to such agreements in their own right. the resolution went to call for an eu council directive on the issue, the details of which are very vague at the moment. the only people that should decide such issues are elected to accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. voting against this non-legislative resolution would in no way obstruct the process of signing up to the ilo agreement.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. the international labour organisation (a non-eu international body) created rules to do with the health and safety of workers in the fishing sector. ukip is in favour of complying with international law, but believes the eu should not have a say in whether a member state signs up to such agreements in their own right. the resolution went to call for an eu council directive on the issue, the details of which are very vague at the moment. the only people that should decide such issues are elected to accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. voting against this non-legislative resolution would in no way obstruct the process of signing up to the ilo agreement.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. the international labour organisation (a non-eu international body) created rules to do with the health and safety of workers in the fishing sector. ukip is in favour of complying with international law, but believes the eu should not have a say in whether a member state signs up to such agreements in their own right. the resolution went to call for an eu council directive on the issue, the details of which are very vague at the moment. the only people that should decide such issues are elected to accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. voting against this non-legislative resolution would in no way obstruct the process of signing up to the ilo agreement.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. the international labour organisation (a non-eu international body) created rules to do with the health and safety of workers in the fishing sector. ukip is in favour of complying with international law, but believes the eu should not have a say in whether a member state signs up to such agreements in their own right. the resolution went to call for an eu council directive on the issue, the details of which are very vague at the moment. the only people that should decide such issues are elected to accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. voting against this non-legislative resolution would in no way obstruct the process of signing up to the ilo agreement.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, non—binding motion for a resolution. we do not support the eu’s power through the rule of law mechanism to interfere in the democratic processes within member states. whilst we take no position on the reforms instituted by the polish government, they are exercising a democratic mandate from a free and fair general election. any issues regarding their compliance with the constitution is a matter for the polish institutions. we remain concerned at the possible extension of the use of the rule of law mechanism to other member states. furthermore, the legal basis for the eu's is questionable. under protocol no. 30 poland is not bound by the charter unless they are recognised in polish law. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ on the joint motion for a resolution on recent developments in poland, i and my sinn féin colleagues voted in favour. the resolution identifies huge concerns in relation to civil liberties, adherence to democratic necessities and environmental and constitutional malpractice. the resolution also places a large focus on strict adherence to both the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights. for those reasons we supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the text of the joint motion for a resolution completely fails to take into account polish sovereignty and their own democratic right to take decisions, even if we happen to disagree with them.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. we do not support the eu’s power through the rule of law mechanism to interfere in the democratic processes within member states. whilst we take no position on the reforms instituted by the polish government, they are exercising a democratic mandate from a free and fair general election. any issues regarding their compliance with the constitution is a matter for the polish institutions. we remain concerned at the possible extension of the use of the rule of law mechanism to other member states. furthermore, the legal basis for the eu’s intervention is questionable. under protocol no 30, poland is not bound by the charter unless they are recognised in polish law. as such, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. we do not support the eu’s power through the rule of law mechanism to interfere in the democratic processes within member states. whilst we take no position on the reforms instituted by the polish government, they are exercising a democratic mandate from a free and fair general election. any issues regarding their compliance with the constitution is a matter for the polish institutions. we remain concerned at the possible extension of the use of the rule of law mechanism to other member states. furthermore, the legal basis for the eu’s intervention is questionable. under protocol no 30, poland is not bound by the charter unless they are recognised in polish law. as such, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. we do not support the eu’s power through the rule of law mechanism to interfere in the democratic processes within member states. whilst we take no position on the reforms instituted by the polish government, they are exercising a democratic mandate from a free and fair general election. any issues regarding their compliance with the constitution is a matter for the polish institutions. we remain concerned at the possible extension of the use of the rule of law mechanism to other member states. furthermore, the legal basis for the eu’s interference is questionable. under protocol no 30, poland is not bound by the charter unless they are recognised in polish law. as such, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. we do not support the eu’s power through the rule of law mechanism to interfere in the democratic processes within member states. whilst we take no position on the reforms instituted by the polish government, they are exercising a democratic mandate from a free and fair general election. any issues regarding their compliance with the constitution is a matter for the polish institutions. we remain concerned at the possible extension of the use of the rule of law mechanism to other member states. furthermore, the legal basis for the eu’s interference is questionable. under protocol no 30, poland is not bound by the charter unless they are recognised in polish law. as such, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. we do not support the eu’s power through the rule of law mechanism to interfere in the democratic processes within member states. whilst we take no position on the reforms instituted by the polish government, they are exercising a democratic mandate from a free and fair general election. any issues regarding their compliance with the constitution is a matter for the polish institutions. we remain concerned at the possible extension of the use of the rule of law mechanism to other member states. furthermore, the legal basis for the eu’s interference is questionable. under protocol no 30, poland is not bound by the charter unless they are recognised in polish law. as such, we voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. we do not support the eu’s power through the rule of law mechanism to interfere in the democratic processes within member states. whilst we take no position on the reforms instituted by the polish government, they are exercising a democratic mandate from a free and fair general election. any issues regarding their compliance with the constitution is a matter for the polish institutions. we remain concerned at the possible extension of the use of the rule of law mechanism to other member states. furthermore, the legal basis for the eu’s interference is questionable. under protocol no 30, poland is not bound by the charter unless they are recognised in polish law. as such, we voted against. furthermore the legal basis for the eu's is questionable. under protocol no. 30 poland is not bound by the charter unless they are recognised in polish law. as such we voted against.
in writing. ‒ the rule of law has been essential to poland’s success and we need to fight to ensure its protection. i fully support the commission’s efforts to work with the polish government, even if these have so far received an uncooperative response. i voted in favour of the resolution as it urges the polish government to change course and ensure that the rule of law is respected.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. we do not support the eu’s power through the rule of law mechanism to interfere in the democratic processes within member states. whilst we take no position on the reforms instituted by the polish government, they are exercising a democratic mandate from a free and fair general election. any issues regarding their compliance with the constitution is a matter for the polish institutions. we remain concerned at the possible extension of the use of the rule of law mechanism to other member states. furthermore, the legal basis for the eu’s interference is questionable. under protocol no 30, poland is not bound by the charter unless they are recognised in polish law. as such, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding motion for a resolution. we do not support the eu’s power through the rule of law mechanism to interfere in the democratic processes within member states. whilst we take no position on the reforms instituted by the polish government, they are exercising a democratic mandate from a free and fair general election. any issues regarding their compliance with the constitution is a matter for the polish institutions. we remain concerned at the possible extension of the use of the rule of law mechanism to other member states. furthermore, the legal basis for the eu’s interference is questionable. under protocol no 30, poland is not bound by the charter unless they are recognised in polish law. as such, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply concerned with the ongoing constitutional crisis in poland, and the polish government’s continued assault on the country’s democratic institutions. moreover, the current government’s reactionary position on women’s rights, and on women’s rights to sexual and reproductive health in particular, is a grave concern, which i believe must be addressed specifically by the european parliament and eu institutions.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, non—binding initiative. we do not support the development and practice of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, we remain concerned that the global security strategy foresees an increased capability for the eu to project power in the near neighbourhood, which would include tunisia. as such, we voted against. following the vote by the uk to leave the eu, we support friendly and cordial relations between tunisia and the uk.
in writing. ‒ whilst the report contains many positives about future relations with tunisia and correctly identifies the need to act against human trafficking, i am concerned that it is somewhat too eu—centric, particularly in the context of brexit.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non—binding initiative. we do not support the development and practice of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, we remain concerned that the global security strategy foresees an increased capability for the eu to project power in the near neighbourhood, which would include tunisia. as such, we voted against. following the vote by the uk to leave the eu, we support friendly and cordial relations between tunisia and the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding initiative. we do not support the development and practice of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, we remain concerned that the global security strategy foresees an increased capability for the eu to project power in the near neighbourhood, which would include tunisia. as such, we voted against. following the vote by the uk to leave the eu, we support friendly and cordial relations between tunisia and the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding initiative. we do not support the development and practice of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, we remain concerned that the global security strategy foresees an increased capability for the eu to project power in the near neighbourhood, which would include tunisia. as such, we voted against. following the vote by the uk to leave the eu, we support friendly and cordial relations between tunisia and the uk.
in writing. ‒ in line with the work the uk government is already doing with its tunisian counterpart on business promotion, culture, tourism and security, i support this report’s emphasis on the value of the eu’s developing partnership with tunisia and its commitment to promoting common interests.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding initiative. we do not support the development and practice of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, we remain concerned that the global security strategy foresees an increased capability for the eu to project power in the near neighbourhood, which would include tunisia. as such, we voted against. following the vote by the uk to leave the eu, we support friendly and cordial relations between tunisia and the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. tunisia represents a successful example in the arab world and its consolidation is paramount for the stability of the entire region. it is crucial that the democratic transition in tunisia be consolidated and supported politically and economically. the terrorist attacks have had a devastating effect on the economy, and unemployment, especially among young people, remains high. the critical nature of the problems affecting tunisia demands more and better support to contribute to capacity building for the tunisian institutions, justice sector and security reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report, which urges tunisia to go further in its political reforms in ways such as abolishing discrimination based on gender, supporting the inclusion of young people and reforming penal law with a view to upholding fundamental freedoms such as the freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding initiative. we do not support the development and practice of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, we remain concerned that the global security strategy foresees an increased capability for the eu to project power in the near neighbourhood, which would include tunisia. as such, we voted against. following the vote by the uk to leave the eu, we support friendly and cordial relations between tunisia and the uk.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, non—binding initiative. we do not support the development and practice of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, we remain concerned that the global security strategy foresees an increased capability for the eu to project power in the near neighbourhood, which would include tunisia. as such, we voted against. following the vote by the uk to leave the eu, we support friendly and cordial relations between tunisia and the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it urges tunisia to go further in its political reforms such as abolishing discrimination based on gender, supporting the inclusion of young people and reforming penal law with a view to upholding fundamental freedoms such as freedom of expression. it further underlines which economic development challenges face tunisia and welcomes steps taken to modernise and liberalise the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which urges tunisia to go further in its political reforms such as abolishing discrimination based on gender, supporting the inclusion of young people, and reforming penal law with a view to upholding fundamental freedoms such as freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding initiative. we do not support the development and practice of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, we remain concerned that the global security strategy foresees an increased capability for the eu to project power in the near neighbourhood, which would include tunisia. as such, we voted against. following the vote by the uk to leave the eu, we support friendly and cordial relations between tunisia and the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding initiative. we do not support the development and practice of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, we remain concerned that the global security strategy foresees an increased capability for the eu to project power in the near neighbourhood, which would include tunisia. as such, we voted against. following the vote by the uk to leave the eu, we support friendly and cordial relations between tunisia and the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report, which urges tunisia to go further in its political reforms in ways such as abolishing discrimination based on gender, supporting the inclusion of young people and reforming penal law with a view to upholding fundamental freedoms such as the freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that urges tunisia to go further in its political reforms such as abolishing discrimination based on gender, supporting the inclusion of young people and reforming penal law with a view to upholding fundamental freedoms such as freedom of expression. it further underlines economic development challenges facing tunisia and welcomes steps taken to modernise and liberalise the economy. importantly, the report includes tunisia’s security challenges that spill over from libya and encourages tunisia to abolish the death penalty. lastly, the report calls for a new visa policy (visa liberalisation) towards tunisia and the opening up of safe and legal routes for migration to decrease irregular migration.
mr president, loopholes in eu legislation and the weakening of collective agreements have led to the exploitation of workers by unscrupulous employers and unfair competition. too often, such practices have wrongly fuelled local frustration, xenophobia and hatred towards migrant workers, contributing in our case to the brexit vote. many of my constituents felt their livelihoods and living standards were being threatened by the undercutting of wages and poor labour rules. it is time to address these loopholes, particularly for posted workers and agency workers. that is why this report is so important and i supported it. it is time to ensure the equal pay for equal work in the same place applies for all workers across europe. if we do not tackle this issue now, the consequences for the eu could be disastrous in the long term and i fear that it could threaten the very existence of this crucial union.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, non—binding, own-initiative report. social dumping is, of course, a huge problem with cheap labour being brought over from other countries by companies to undercut wages and avoid employing local workers. it also covers issues like companies finding cheaper alternatives elsewhere and moving operations abroad. however, this report went on to call for more eu action, legislation, monitoring of legislation and data collection. on top of that, there isn’t an official legal definition of ‘social dumping’ in eu law, so this report is about an issue the eu can’t even define properly. the eu can never tackle social dumping, as the free movement of people is the perfect enabler for it to occur. also, the eu’s posted workers directive actually enables employers to bring cheap labour over to undercut the local community. the only way to stop social dumping is to leave the eu and get back control of immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this very good own-initiative report, which proposes solutions to harmonise social rights upwards across the eu. the draft report recommended several measures to fill the regulatory and legislative gaps. these included strengthening labour inspections at national level and the creation of a eu-level body to combat abusive practices; an obligation for companies to have one official address to combat letterbox companies; blacklisting companies responsible for serious offences including the use of undeclared work; and a revision of the posting of workers directive to ensure real equal treatment of workers and fair competition. more than 700 amendments were tabled, mainly by conservatives, and the resulting compromise amendments have weakened the report, in particular by blocking all concrete proposals in relation to the pwd. despite this it is still a very progressive and valuable report that comes at a crucial time in the lead-up to the revision of the pwd.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for further eu harmonisation. at a time when britain is leaving the european union, it cannot be in our interests to have such harmonisation. in particular, when countries have massively different purchasing power, the suggestion of harmonisation of minimum income could lead to significant problems – either leading to a lowest common denominator, or to a situation which would be completely unsustainable in the poorest member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. social dumping is, of course, a huge problem with cheap labour being brought over from other countries by companies to undercut wages and avoid employing local workers. it also covers issues like companies finding cheaper alternatives elsewhere and moving operations abroad. however, this report went on to call for more eu action, legislation, monitoring of legislation and data collection. on top of that, there isn’t an official legal definition of ‘social dumping’ in eu law, so this report is about an issue the eu can’t even define properly. the eu can never tackle social dumping, as the free movement of people is the perfect enabler for it to occur. also, the eu’s posted workers directive actually enables employers to bring cheap labour over to undercut the local community. the only way to stop social dumping is to leave the eu and get back control of immigration.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. social dumping is of course a huge problem with cheap labour being brought over from other countries by companies to undercut wages and avoid employing local workers. it also covers issues like companies finding cheaper alternatives elsewhere and moving operations abroad. however this report went on to call for more eu action, legislation, monitoring of legislation and data collection. on top of that there isn’t an official legal definition of ‘social dumping’ in eu law, so this report is about an issue the eu can’t even define properly. the eu can never tackle social dumping as the free movement of people is the perfect enabler for it to occur. also the eu’s posted workers directive actually enables employers to bring cheap labour over to undercut the local community. the only way to stop social dumping is to leave the eu and get back control of immigration.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this report and its calls for initiatives at an eu level that would undermine the competence and effectiveness of national governments’ efforts in their own labour markets. i am a strong supporter of protecting all workers from unfair working conditions but national governments are much better placed to develop labour market policies addressing their own specific needs.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. social dumping is of course a huge problem with cheap labour being brought over from other countries by companies to undercut wages and avoid employing local workers. it also covers issues like companies finding cheaper alternatives elsewhere and moving operations abroad. however this report went on to call for more eu action, legislation, monitoring of legislation and data collection. on top of that there isn’t an official legal definition of ‘social dumping’ in eu law, so this report is about an issue the eu can’t even define properly. the eu can never tackle social dumping as the free movement of people is the perfect enabler for it to occur. also the eu’s posted workers directive actually enables employers to bring cheap labour over to undercut the local community. the only way to stop social dumping is to leave the eu and get back control of immigration.
in writing. – i voted against this own-initiative report as it does not add any additional value to existing laws. calling for more numerous initiatives at the european level will not solve the extensive problems of unemployment in some member states. whilst i agree that workers should be protected from unfair working conditions, i strongly believe that individual governments are best placed to create legislation for their own work markets. a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach does not work.
in writing. ‒ labour colleagues and i voted in favour of an important report to fight social dumping (the race to the bottom on social rights and wages) in europe. my colleagues and i have long been calling for a revision of the posting of workers directive to fight social dumping effectively and ensure fair competition. we need to codify the principle of ‘equal pay for equal work in the same place’, and to that end it is pleasing that commission president juncker reaffirmed his commitment to this principle in his recent state of the european union address.
in writing. ‒ today the eplp voted in favour of an important report to fight social dumping (the race to the bottom on social rights and wages) in europe. the european parliament labour party have long been calling for a revision of the posting of workers directive to fight social dumping effectively and ensure fair competition. we need to codify the principle of ‘equal pay for equal work in the same place’.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. social dumping is of course a huge problem with cheap labour being brought over from other countries by companies to undercut wages and avoid employing local workers. it also covers issues like companies finding cheaper alternatives elsewhere and moving operations abroad. however this report went on to call for more eu action, legislation, monitoring of legislation and data collection. on top of that there isn’t an official legal definition of ‘social dumping’ in eu law, so this report is about an issue the eu can’t even define properly. the eu can never tackle social dumping as the free movement of people is the perfect enabler for it to occur. also the eu’s posted workers directive actually enables employers to bring cheap labour over to undercut the local community. the only way to stop social dumping is to leave the eu and get back control of immigration.
in writing. – diane james mep and her colleagues voted against this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. social dumping is of course a huge problem with cheap labour being brought over from other countries by companies to undercut wages and avoid employing local workers. it also covers issues like companies finding cheaper alternatives elsewhere and moving operations abroad. however this report went on to call for more eu action, legislation, monitoring of legislation and data collection. on top of that there isn’t an official legal definition of ‘social dumping’ in eu law, so this report is about an issue the eu can’t even define properly. the eu can never tackle social dumping as the free movement of people is the perfect enabler for it to occur. also the eu’s posted workers directive actually enables employers to bring cheap labour over to undercut the local community. the only way to stop social dumping is to leave the eu and get back control of immigration..
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of an important report to fight social dumping in europe. the european parliament labour party have long been calling for a revision of the posting of workers directive to fight social dumping effectively and ensure fair competition. we need to codify the principle of ‘equal pay for equal work in the same place’.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of this important report to fight social dumping (the race to the bottom on social rights and wages) in europe. the european parliamentary labour party have long been calling for a revision of the posting of workers directive to fight social dumping effectively and ensure fair competition. we need to codify the principle of ‘equal pay for equal work in the same place’.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. social dumping is of course a huge problem with cheap labour being brought over from other countries by companies to undercut wages and avoid employing local workers. it also covers issues like companies finding cheaper alternatives elsewhere and moving operations abroad. however this report went on to call for more eu action, legislation, monitoring of legislation and data collection. on top of that there isn’t an official legal definition of ‘social dumping’ in eu law, so this report is about an issue the eu can’t even define properly. the eu can never tackle social dumping as the free movement of people is the perfect enabler for it to occur. also the eu’s posted workers directive actually enables employers to bring cheap labour over to undercut the local community. the only way to stop social dumping is to leave the eu and get back control of immigration.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. social dumping is of course a huge problem with cheap labour being brought over from other countries by companies to undercut wages and avoid employing local workers. it also covers issues like companies finding cheaper alternatives elsewhere and moving operations abroad. however this report went on to call for more eu action, legislation, monitoring of legislation and data collection. on top of that there isn’t an official legal definition of ‘social dumping’ in eu law, so this report is about an issue the eu can’t even define properly. the eu can never tackle social dumping as the free movement of people is the perfect enabler for it to occur. also the eu’s posted workers directive actually enables employers to bring cheap labour over to undercut the local community. the only way to stop social dumping is to leave the eu and get back control of immigration.
in writing. ‒ today the european parliament labour party (eplp) voted in favour of an important report to fight social dumping (the race to the bottom on social rights and wages) in europe. the eplp has long been calling for a revision of the posting of workers directive to fight social dumping effectively and ensure fair competition. we need to codify the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place.
in writing. ‒ today the eplp voted in favour of an important report to fight social dumping (the race to the bottom on social rights and wages) in europe. the european parliament labour party has long been calling for a revision of the posting of workers directive to fight social dumping effectively and ensure fair competition. we need to codify the principle of ‘equal pay for equal work in the same place’.
in writing. ‒ the eplp voted in favour of an important report to fight social dumping (the race to the bottom on social rights and wages) in europe, sending a strong message to the commission and member states. with the adoption of this report, supported by all british trade unions, the socialists and democrats have won an important battle to protect workers from all over europe against the exploitation, discrimination and abuse they suffer at the hands of unscrupulous companies and due to the lack of adequate labour legislation at a european level. the european parliamentary labour party has long been calling for a revision of the posting of workers directive to fight social dumping effectively and ensure fair competition.
in writing. – regulatory technical standards laid before the parliament by the commission include a provision that we have learnt will result in misleading information about future performance being published in investment prospectuses. the parliament seeks to correct this by objecting to the delegated legislation but, because in doing so the commission is called upon to act, we cannot vote in favour of either the oral amendment, or the resolution as a whole, nor can we vote against them because doing so would approve delegated legislation (and moreover that legislation would knowingly mislead investors). accordingly, ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion and in favour of the oral amendment. my colleague matt carthy is a member of the priips negotiating team. the file is on packaged retail insurance-based investment products and relates to level 2 regulatory technical standards (rts) developed by the commission to impose disclosure requirements on costs, risk and future performance scenarios on the banks and financial institutions that market these products to retail investors. while we want to see it implemented as quickly as possible there are problems with the rts as they currently stand, particularly in relation to the calculation of future performance (the results are overly optimistic). in the interests of consumer protection we support the revision of the rtss which will require an objection from parliament. for practical reasons i supported the oral amendment, which ‘calls on the commission to consider a proposal postponing the application date of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 without changing any other provision of level 1 in order to ensure a smooth implementation of the requirements set out in the regulation and the delegated regulation, and avoid the application of level 1 without rts being in force in advance’.
in writing. ‒ this matter was not the subject of a roll-call vote. in the interests of transparency and democracy, i would therefore like to confirm that i abstained on this resolution. i could not vote against (because of the potential for misleading information) but neither could i vote in favour (because i oppose the principle of commission action in this way).
in writing. ‒ regulatory technical standards laid before the parliament by the commission include a provision that we have learnt will result in misleading information about future performance being published in investment prospectuses. the parliament seeks to correct this by objecting to the delegated legislation but, because in doing so the commission is called upon to act, we cannot vote in favour of either the oral amendment, or the resolution as a whole, nor can we vote against them because doing so would approve delegated legislation (and moreover that legislation would knowingly mislead investors). accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ regulatory technical standards laid before the parliament by the commission include a provision that we have learnt will result in misleading information about future performance being published in investment prospectuses. the parliament seeks to correct this by objecting to the delegated legislation but, because in doing so the commission is called upon to act, we cannot vote in favour of either the oral amendment, or the resolution as a whole, nor can we vote against them because doing so would approve delegated legislation (and moreover that legislation would knowingly mislead investors). accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ regulatory technical standards laid before the parliament by the commission include a provision that we have learnt will result in misleading information about future performance being published in investment prospectuses. the parliament seeks to correct this by objecting to the delegated legislation but, because in doing so the commission is called upon to act, we cannot vote in favour of either the oral amendment, or the resolution as a whole, nor can we vote against them because doing so would approve delegated legislation (and moreover that legislation would knowingly mislead investors). accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ regulatory technical standards laid before the parliament by the commission include a provision that we have learnt will result in misleading information about future performance being published in investment prospectuses. the parliament seeks to correct this by objecting to the delegated legislation but, because in doing so the commission is called upon to act, we cannot vote in favour of either the oral amendment, or the resolution as a whole, nor can we vote against them because doing so would approve delegated legislation (and moreover that legislation would knowingly mislead investors). accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ regulatory technical standards laid before the parliament by the commission include a provision that we have learnt will result in misleading information about future performance being published in investment prospectuses. the parliament seeks to correct this by objecting to the delegated legislation but, because in doing so the commission is called upon to act, we cannot vote in favour of either the oral amendment, or the resolution as a whole, nor can we vote against them because doing so would approve delegated legislation (and moreover that legislation would knowingly mislead investors). accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. – regulatory technical standards laid before the parliament by the commission include a provision that we have learnt will result in misleading information about future performance being published in investment prospectuses. the parliament seeks to correct this by objecting to the delegated legislation but, because in doing so the commission is called upon, to act we cannot vote in favour of either the oral amendment, or the resolution as a whole, nor can we vote against them because doing so would approve delegated legislation (and moreover that legislation would knowingly mislead investors). accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ regulatory technical standards laid before the parliament by the commission include a provision that we have learnt will result in misleading information about future performance being published in investment prospectuses. the parliament seeks to correct this by objecting to the delegated legislation but, because in doing so the commission is called upon to act, we cannot vote in favour of either the oral amendment, or the resolution as a whole, nor can we vote against them because doing so would approve delegated legislation (and moreover that legislation would knowingly mislead investors). accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ regulatory technical standards laid before the parliament by the commission include a provision that we have learnt will result in misleading information about future performance being published in investment prospectuses. the parliament seeks to correct this by objecting to the delegated legislation but, because in doing so the commission is called upon to act we cannot vote in favour of either the oral amendment, or the resolution as a whole, nor can we vote against them because doing so would approve delegated legislation (and moreover that legislation would knowingly mislead investors). accordingly ukip abstained.
madam president, just two weeks ago caterpillar announced that more than 200 jobs will be lost in northern ireland from the plant in monkstown in county antrim. this announcement, sadly, has been the latest in a series of job losses over the past number of years. last year we had caterpillar again, invista, sensata, and michelin, which all announced massive job losses, and in the course of 2014, jti announced that it would be closing its facility in ballymena, with 800 job losses. i know from the situation in northern ireland that these are highly skilled and highly motivated workers. the jobs that we are talking about are of both direct and indirect benefit to the local economy, and the cumulative effect of all these redundancies is therefore considerable. as we have heard, this month there are similar stories from other parts of europe. at regional, national and european level i believe we need to identify and address the challenges facing the manufacturing sector and equip for the future, with a joined-up approach and a clear positive vision to make the most of future opportunities. that is why my party colleagues and i, and the business community, are calling for a specific manufacturing strategy in northern ireland. unfortunately, our local executive does not appear to be listening. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i would like to thank my colleague for his question. he asked a very interesting question, and i understand that at this moment in time the commissioner is preparing a response directly looking at all the different negotiations and trade deals that they are making. i have asked the commission this particular point from the agriculture committee's point of view: how many deals can we do without totally destroying that which we are producing within the european context? i think the sooner we see that, what not only ttip, ceta and all the other trade deals that are in the offing – australia and new zealand are out there at the moment. so there is many trade deals that are out there to happen, and that is a very worrying thing. but we need to know the effects. how much more can europe absorb with these trade deals?
(sound missing at start) in home demolitions in palestine. as mep, however, i support the workers of the monkstown plant in newtownabbey, which had 250 jobs axed, and plants in belfast and larne are under threat. taking into account profits and shareholders’ dividends, one way of saving these jobs might be to spread production over different plants and limit shareholders’ dividend. so, will shareholders and millionaires receive a little less, or will well-performing industrial infrastructure be destroyed and thousands of families thrown into disarray? unfortunately, in a world that caters for greed and not need, greed triumphs. whatever the concerns regarding the globalisation adjustment fund, there will be no opportunity for my constituents to tap into it because the british government has control over access to it and it has consistently denied the use of the globalisation fund for redundant workers in the north of ireland.
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting the question; it’s really a pleasure to hear so much support for the sort of policies we’ve been working for here in the public debate, but sometimes we haven’t had so much support from other groups in in our committee work. particularly on full public country—by—country reporting, we’ve been fighting for this for quite a long time, so i’d be very pleased to hear if cora’s group have now decided to support that. so, could i ask: will alde be supporting full public country—by—country reporting?
blue-card question. – very simply put, mr ferber: it is the treaties that allow nation states to keep their own taxes and not be allowed by the eu. but you promote the lever, as you suggest, of competition law being used to enable this parliament and this european union to take taxes off nation states. do you not see that this lever is taxation of nation states by the eu, by the back door?
madam president, the manchineel tree is a tropical tree originating in north america. it is one of the most dangerous trees in the world. to eat its fruit is deadly. its nickname is manzanilla de la muerte, or ‘little apple of death’. as part of the eu’s march to nation statehood, it needs to finance its over—ambitious policies: this parliament, civil service, courts, foreign policy and, of course, the burgeoning eu army. to raise money, it must have taxes. the apple tax ruling forms part of the eu’s long-standing plan – which includes vat and the common consolidated corporation tax base – to take control of eu citizens’ taxes directly. the apple tax ruling is an attack on the tax sovereignty of eu nation states by the back door, and the eu has weaponised eu competition law and, in particular, state aid rules to achieve this. the ruling is a massive problem for those europhiles and conservative ministers who believe we should stay in the single market or want even eea status. remaining in either will lead the uk to be part of the eu’s competition law, acquis and eu state aid rules. either could lead to retrospective tax rulings and stop us from having an independent competitive tax policy. just as the manzanilla tree is the little apple of death for those that eat its fruit, the eu is the big apple of death to prosperity and freedom.
blue-card question. – madam president, i would like to inform mr kelly – or perhaps he is already aware – that as soon as this decision was out, the uk tories were immediately saying ‘well, now that we are leaving the european union to compete, here’s a great opportunity with ireland on tax.’ i would like to ask him how he thinks it can possibly be for the benefit of european citizens that we all seek to become countries like singapore that compete with each other. what exactly does he think the future is in that, and does he not understand that what commissioner vestager is doing is exactly defending us against that kind of race to the bottom?
madam president, i congratulate commissioner vestager on her courageous decision to demand that apple pay the eur 13 billion it owes in tax. this action has done much to increase the eu's standing with european citizens, not just warm words or vague ambitions, but concrete action that will positively affect people's livelihoods. across our continent, we see the revival of nationalism as people feel out of control in a globalising world, yet it is not other countries that threaten our ability to act, but the global corporations that grow ever more powerful. i welcome the decision of the commission to work for europe's citizens and to contain the power of corporations and ensure that they pay the taxes they owe. but we also need to be clear about who the recovered tax belongs to, because this is not just about ireland and apple. when any country arranges a sweetheart deal for a company we all lose out. if we are to reverse the damaging cuts to public services and to invest in such vital issues as mitigating climate change, then we need to keep up the pressure for tax justice.
madam president, tax fairness is about everybody paying their fair share, and i applaud you, commissioner, for your work and for having the political steel to reach this decision – a big step in tackling corporate tax evasion. it beggars belief that apple only paid corporate tax at a measly the rate of 0.005% in 2014. i believe this decision is a clear message to multinationals which are cherry-picking in terms of tax avoidance. let us not forget that apple benefits from infrastructure in ireland paid for by the irish taxpayer and its staff use this infrastructure on a daily basis, but the irish taxpayer does not get anything in return. we cannot have one rule for big multinationals and another one for smes, who are the main creators of jobs across the european union. in my region in the west midlands, one of the big issues raised with me by smes is that this type of sweetheart deal is massively unfair and one they felt that the eu should have tackled long ago. now apple’s ceo has threatened that this decision will impact on jobs and investment. i believe this is totally the wrong approach. as one of the largest companies in the world, apple is promoting corporate social responsibility and i welcome this; however, would it not be better for them to pay their tax rather than cherrypicking again and paying for perhaps a bit of education here or a bit of housing there? although 13 billion looks like a massive amount of money, to a company like apple it is only peanuts in terms of their total balance. commissioner, the competition rules are a strong tool which should in the end benefit the consumer. will there now be a focus on the prices of apple products and the company’s strategies to erode interoperability, such as removal of headphones? once again, i think this decision is a big step on the road towards tax justice.
madam president, the commission’s apple state-aid eur 13 billion decision is a brazen attempt to usurp the primacy of nation state tax policy and is legally questionable. eu member states have been rightly reluctant to cede autonomy over setting tax rates. it is, after all, a crucial mechanism for responding to their respective economic needs and for nations to be competitive globally. commissioner vestager has responded outrageously to this sovereign issue by attempting to use state aid measures to harmonise corporation taxes and to direct their collection. this is another eu power grab. it is a tax trespass, and tax breaks are not state aid. tax reform can only be achieved through international consensus by sovereign nation governments. yes, global corporations must pay more in tax and fair taxes, but action must be taken at the g20 or oec level, not by the eu. i stand with the sovereign irish government in challenging this decision. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you, mr nekov. i think there are two issues being confused here. the first issue: are big corporations paying too little tax? absolutely right; they are. we have to raise tax for them. the second point: should the eu be overriding national sovereignty and misusing state aid competition rules to do so? no, it should not. do not confuse the two. i think we all agree that apple and other big corporations should pay more tax, but not this way.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, you might very well think, from looking at the title of this debate, that i’d be all in favour of this report. after all, it is about making sure that those who have come to countries of the european union illegally are not then able to stay here. at first glance, it’s about the rule of law, and i can see exactly what this is intended to achieve. you might also very well think that i would oppose it, because – as ever with the european union – the aims are about harmonisation: about one—size—fits—all legislation at eu level. and i’m not convinced, frankly, that that will provide anything more than cosmetics or actually result in a real difference being made. it is not going to overturn the decisions which have been made which lead to even more illegal immigration. but in actual fact, i’m going to abstain on this regulation, because the decision is one which isn’t actually going to apply to the united kingdom. sovereignty cuts both ways: i back brexit in the uk because i don’t want laws in the uk to be made by the european union, and so i take the view that it would be utterly hypocritical of me if i were to interfere in decisions like this, which will not affect me or the united kingdom. it is therefore appropriate for me to abstain on this resolution.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in this report the committee on employment and social affairs has added a long wish-list to the guidelines to member states that talks a lot about a high level of employment and decent working conditions. of course we all want this, everybody does, but the reality is that if we want any of these hopes and dreams to come true, if we want more jobs for our young people, serious labour market reforms are needed to make the workforce more flexible and help businesses to grow. in the uk, this process began in 2010 with the new conservative government and figures released today show that unemployment is now at 4.8%, with three quarters of new jobs in the past year being full-time work. but the main issue i want to raise here is an issue of competence. with this report the european parliament is trying once again to have more and more say over policies. we firmly believe it should remain a competence of the member states. as a group, we have long held the view that the sharing of good practice in this area is a good thing, but adding a long wish-list to what has already been agreed by the member states is not the right approach. let us look at what works well and help to share that experience for the good of all member states, our citizens, and especially for our young people.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would also like to add the voice of my group to that of the rapporteur. this attitude on the part of the council is an ongoing problem and it is not just about timetabling. it is a pity because there are a lot of good ideas in this work this evening. our governments are generally short of good ideas. we can see this in the continuing high levels of unemployment in many of our countries – and, indeed, low levels do not always mean everything is perfect. i note that my british colleague totally forgot to mention the number of people who increasingly are on zero-hour contracts and, of course, that is a national competence and nothing to do with the european union. it is hardly inclusive growth. they are also failing to tackle discrimination on the labour market, so talent and qualifications are going to waste. but i would also like to point out that we have a clear risk here of forgetting that we have to deal with the challenges of climate change, which figures as a clear goal of the 2020 strategy. i would like to thank our rapporteur and the committee for trying to rectify that in our opinion on the labour market guidelines.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, our referendum on 23 june was a very british revolution. as i was watching the results come in, it was the working class areas, it was the traditional labour areas that were coming in with massive votes to leave the european union, and it was obvious why. it was obvious before the referendum was even called. you talk about employment policies, well let us look at the biggest issue that has faced the united kingdom for several years now: that of uncontrolled, unfettered, mass immigration. now i do not blame people wanting to get a better life for themselves and their family. if your minimum wage is gbp 1 an hour, and you have the ability to go to a country where the minimum wage is gbp 8 or 9 an hour, you would do that, and i do not blame people for doing that. the people i do blame are the politicians who forgot that they were public servants. they forgot that they had a responsibility to their constituents, who are their employers. as public servants they have to make sure that they do everything within their power to improve the lot of their employers, and they have not. it was the governor of the bank of england who sealed the deal for the referendum when he said that mass immigration had led to incredible wage compression. wages had fallen, jobs had stagnated, and why? because people were coming in, taking a minimum wage that was much above their own wage, but big business cottoned on to this. the government in allowing for in-work benefits meant that big employers did not have to increase wages because the taxpayer will top up the bill. fortunately, with our brexit, we have made sure that we can fix this problem and there is not a day that goes by when i do not thank the british people for giving us our freedom. but i also worry day after day, because those of you here who cling to the euro, who cling to free movement and the unreasonable policies of this union, you are condemning your futures, your youth, to misery and unemployment. and when you get your referendums, which the people will actually force upon you, you will have to change, or your constituents will change you.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, i would like to welcome this report on behalf of the socialists and democrats and thank mr ferber, and all of our colleagues in various committees, who have worked very hard on this report. i am glad to say that we have got a good result. recent years have seen significant changes to postal services in the eu alongside the rapid development of the parcel delivery sector, as has been said. the review of the postal services directive is a welcome opportunity to assess these developments now and establish our priorities for the future of services in europe. it is important to note at the outset that the postal services review and the report that we will vote on tomorrow have both confirmed that the directive does not require the privatisation of a universal service provider. in fact, it stresses that eu citizens have a guaranteed right to affordable and regular postal delivery services and it makes clear that these rights need to be protected. so together we must ensure the long-term sustainability of the universal service obligation, protecting, as has also been said, minimum delivery standards while recognising that the current provisions do provide member states with the necessary flexibility within the law in the application of the directive, according to particular geographical circumstances. i would urge you very much to welcome this report with me. parliament’s report makes it clear that competition in the postal sector must develop in a way that enhances rather than impedes citizens’ basic rights. greater consumer choice is to be welcomed, but we must ensure that this does not lead to cherry picking, particularly in relation to employment practices in the sector. it has been acknowledged in the report that liberalisation of the postal sector has led to substantial differences in working conditions and wages and the report also stresses that increasing competition should not lead to illegal social practices. the eu and the member states must work together to protect fundamental workers’ rights across the sector irrespective of employment status. now while this report deals primarily with the review of the postal services directive, we know that online shopping is a major factor, and that has also been mentioned. so overall, this is a good report, and i would urge everyone to vote for it tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to marcus ferber for his dedication in this long-standing directive. i was initially delighted when it looked as though we had reached a common conclusion after such a long time, but it is not quite there. the royal mail means a great deal to all of us in the uk. indeed, its origins date back to henry viii, the original brexiteer. 1635, in the reign of king charles i, paved the way for a unified postal service across the uk and 1883 saw the introduction of our postman. so, as it stands, the current uk postal services act 2011 goes further than the minimum obligations laid down for a universal service. a six-day a week provision is guaranteed with uniform prices and free services to blind and partially sighted people, which shows that we have fully met the requirements to date. regrettably, due to the unwelcome inclusion of a social dimension we are unlikely to support the rapporteur in the vote tomorrow. the key reason for this is not that we do not support great opportunities and good working conditions, but the reference in paragraph 48 to the possible installation of tachographs on vehicles of less than 3.5 tons. it was only in 2014, following a lengthy battle to exclude vehicles of this weight, that that regulation was supported. finally, mr president, we now live in a world where most of us will be buying goods online and we expect a 24/7 service. because of this, the advantages of smes and the rise of entrepreneurs in this business have been most welcome. i therefore cannot support your report, mr ferber, unless paragraph 48 is removed. and i do hope that that will be the case before the vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ferber, for the report and for including amendments from our group as well, and the greens/european free alliance will be supporting the report tomorrow. it is essential, of course, as other colleagues have said, to keep the universal service obligation to deliver and collect five times a week as a minimum. it is important too to allow enough flexibility for member states to meet their own domestic needs, as well as ensuring that this service is sustainable. post is one of the most valued public services, and has changed and developed a great deal in recent years as we have become more digital. i know from my own constituency in wales how vital it is to ensure that there is no discrimination against people who live in rural or mountainous areas compared with people living in cities and towns. there has to be an equal service. the report highlights the importance of decent working conditions and wages for all postal workers, for more checks on rest times, improving driver and road safety. it also includes protection for consumers, and the need for easy recourse, particularly in the case of cross-border services and it aims at ensuring affordability and access for all, which must be a basic principle for all of our services.
madam president, i represent a very rural region and part of my region in cornwall has levels of deprivation and isolation that are so severe that its half-a-million inhabitants qualify for maximum levels of funding support from the european union. it is by any measure a sparsely populated and remote area, so postal services are vital and they are protected by the uk’s 2011 postal services act. i am glad to see that this own-initiative report comes some way towards guaranteeing a similar universal service obligation throughout the rest of europe, but let us recognise the difficulties and challenges presented by this obligation. postal services providers have to be lean, flexible organisations able to adapt to changing circumstances, and changing and indeed falling demand. they do not need to have additional burdens placed upon them by regulation. so let us protect services for my constituents in cornwall and reject the calls in this report for more rigid employment contracts, tachographs and other restrictive practices.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, thank you to the rapporteur for a good report, and thank you, mr karas, for your collaborative, cooperative approach in which we found a lot of common ground. i think we share a lot of thoughts on what the problems are and how to solve them – and yet we still have the same discussions, decade after decade, on the fact that they have not gone away. in my west midlands region there are 378 000 small businesses, a number which is growing strongly and yet only 26% of them have employees, a number which is falling. by the way, there are 178 000 people unemployed. now, it does not take a genius to know that if a relatively small number of those businesses were empowered to take on some staff we would begin to make some more progress with unemployment. why do they not do this? partly, perhaps, because the banks, much as they say they are trying, are still not close enough to their customers, and they need to get closer. fundamentally, though, it is because there is a gap in which it is not commercially viable for banks to lend. that is why they do not lend and that gap needs to be plugged by the public sector, by an intelligence-led approach to public sector-backed investments. there are many examples in my region of this being done very well, but it needs to be scaled up significantly and consistently. there are other things that we need. we need one-stop shops, we need to diversify the lending base away from banks; but, fundamentally, we need to be clear that there is a gap in which lending is not economic. it is not uneconomic because of the risk, it is uneconomic because of the risk relative to the transaction costs that will remain at this lower end of the sme market. that gap has to be plugged by the public sector.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the capital markets union is supposed to facilitate investment, but i have to tell you that the eu is instead following policies that will harm investment. the ruling on apple’s tax in ireland is a fine example of this. businesses, whether they are large or small, need certainty in their tax affairs, but in demanding that apple pay eur 13 billion, the eu has in effect retrospectively changed the meaning of illegal state aid to suit its own ends and agenda. what is that agenda? in the short term, to distract from the tendency of the single market to facilitate tax avoidance by abuse of its freedom of establishment; in the medium term, to expand the meaning of state aid within the single market rules to include tax; and in the long term, to abolish tax competition completely so that states have no incentive to provide public services more efficiently. what an irony that the so-called eu competition commission is being used to eliminate competition. in the end, this will result only in less efficient public services and, regardless of any windfall tax, smaller receipts from apple. the lesson for the uk to draw from all this, even after brexit, is that if the uk remains in the single market, we will be subject not only to the rules on state aid, but also control of our taxes. the uncertainty and the taxation without representation that would result makes it even more imperative that britain must leave the single market and that brexit must mean leaving the single market. the eu clearly does not understand businesses, small, medium or large.
blue-card question. – i sympathise greatly with the problems of france and small french businesses. we all know they are suffering very badly. would you not agree with me that the answer to this is for france to join britain with frexit, as i believe madam le pen has already suggested? do you agree with me, sir?
blue-card question. – mr fernandez, you said things about ukip which really were pretty silly. you say the commissioner has had to sit up very late here. well, may i point out that he gets a very very large salary, so i do not think that staying up very late to listen to the meanderings of populists is going to be too taxing for him. would you not agree that it is better to be a populist than someone like you who is an un-populist?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – madam president, small businesses are the backbone of our economies and if we want to succeed we must help them to grow, and that means making it easy for them to raise funds. too often in the past, small companies have found that the legal and bureaucratic costs that they face trying to find new shareholders in a public listing make the exercise exorbitantly expensive. but the changes we are discussing tonight will make it easier for these companies to publish a prospectus, go to the markets and find investors. in today’s exciting digital markets we have seen increasing opportunities also to raise money through crowdfunding, and it is important that this is recognised and is not overburdened with bureaucracy before it gets off the ground. my committee’s role in this was to ensure that consumer issues are safeguarded. people will benefit from increased investment choices, but we worked hard with consumer experts to ensure that there is an appropriate level of clear and precise information so that consumers can make informed choices. it has been a pleasure to work on this file with the committee on economic and monetary affairs, especially with mr de backer and i wish him well in his new job, but also with the commission and the former commissioner, jonathan hill, who cared so passionately about using politics to make real practical changes. i hope that in a post-brexit world we will be able to find ways for businesses across the eu to still access those deep capital markets in the uk and for british businesses to maintain and develop relationships with investors on the continent.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, firstly my congratulations to petr ježek for the outstanding work he has done on this important report, taking over halfway through the process. creating a good prospectus regime is at the heart of capital markets union. in 2014, just one in four prospectuses were passported, meaning that the vast majority of issues raised capital in their own member state. we need to change this: we need an eu where capital can flow freely and does not stop at member states’ borders. plus, it could also help in terms of gaining access to funds from institutional investors who are sitting on their capital because of the current climate of low interest rates. so if we are to unlock the potential of capital markets for smes it is vital that we make prospectuses less cumbersome and cheaper, cutting out the lengthy and excessive work of banks and lawyers. therefore, this report aims to reduce red tape and legal fees, and by raising the threshold to one million we will make it easier for smes to tap into the capital markets. there are almost 400 000 smes in my constituency, the west midlands, and i welcome the fact that the report proposes a single standardised document for smes to sell their securities. this will make it easier for them to get access to potential cross-border finance in order to scale up their businesses and get to the next level. by limiting the number of pages in the prospectus summaries, i believe this information has, in the past, made it unattractive for smes to raise capital. another key feature of this report is harmonising investor protection rules across different pieces of eu legislation. the capital markets union will succeed only if it tackles the problem of fragmentation of practices within member states. overall, this report achieves a number of key objectives and will hopefully lead to a deepening of capital markets with or without the uk.
mr president, this is just another example of how the eu is stealing sovereignty. you are creating an eu army, you have stolen ireland’s taxation policy and now you are taking control of the wage and welfare policy from nation-states. the eu is now an empire in every respect. you are overruling national sovereignty everywhere. i must now demand that ms may, the uk prime minister, immediately evokes article 50 of the lisbon treaty and get us out of this terrible mess before it is too late.
blue-card question. – ms boylan, i firmly agree with the beginning of your analysis of the problems of the egf. do you also accept, or not, the principle that the very existence of the egf allows executives at large corporations, when they are considering to make redundancies, know that they can reduce the redundancy values for people, know that they can sack more people – know that they can get away with all their policies because of the very existence of this egf – and that if it was not there they would be forced by national states to pay proper funds to those people who are leaving?
on behalf of the efdd group. – thank you, mr. president. the european globalisation adjustment fund – well, there is a euphemism if ever i heard one. it seems that the solution to all of the problems in the european union is more money, more money, more money – not a change of policy, not a change of direction. god forbid you guys actually ditch the single currency which is causing misery to southern europe and creeping its way upwards. but you do not understand, you are getting this money from taxpayers who are already suffering. you may see increased gdp numbers but, in my country, productivity may be up but people’s wages have been compressed because of the seemlessly unlimited supply of cheap labour coming from complete free movement and open borders. there is another way that you can change this: you can take back control. there is a democratic revolution taking place, with referendums becoming the issue of the day across every single eu member state, and they will happen. so go with the tide, take back control over trade policy so that you can determine trade policies that reflect your constituents in your country first and foremost, because we are sent here as public servants. we are not here to do what the european union wants, we are here to do what our constituents want. 17.4 million people in the united kingdom – a majority – voted to take back control of trade policy so that we can create trade policies that limit redundancies, to make sure that we do not have to discuss redundancy packages. you can do the same. follow our lead, take back control, let democracy and let your people win the day.
author. – mr president, the illicit drug trade in the philippines, and its associated criminal activities, is clearly a menace to its domestic – and the wider, global – population. president duterte’s pledge to crack down on the trade is therefore naturally welcomed. his methods to date, however, are not. a policy that fails to distinguish between users and distributors is but one problem. the indiscriminate killing of thousands of drug users and dealers without any due process is to be absolutely condemned. the arrest of thousands more suspects on the basis of spurious allegations and hearsay is also of concern. duterte’s comments that we will not stop until the last drug lord and pusher have surrendered or are put either behind bars or below the ground, if they so wish, is far from the tone that i would expect or wish to see from an elected president. i welcome this house’s resolution and call for an investigation into the extrajudicial killings. but eu member state governments must also do more to put pressure on the government of the philippines to re—evaluate its totally unacceptable policies and practices in this area.
blue-card question. – mrs lochbihler, you made a reference that since december 2014 the philippines has enjoyed enhanced trade preferences with the eu under the gsp+ scheme, granted to them in exchange for good performance on human rights and labour rights, the environment and good governance, and this has already provided a major boost to the philippines. do you think the commission should now reconsider, in light of this debate and what we are considering in terms of the back—sliding we have got on human rights and the rule of law and the extrajudicial killings by vigilante groups? do you think the commission should take this up now?
mr president, i had the opportunity to visit the philippines a couple of years ago and i saw many developments that were cause for optimism. corruption was still a problem but being addressed, and judicial reforms, human rights and criminal law were all on president aquino’s reform agenda. upon return, i advocated granting the philippines gsp+ status. unfortunately, today there is less cause for optimism. the extrajudicial killings taking place in president duterte’s war on drugs are setting the country back years in terms of human rights and rule of law. we have heard today that more than a thousand people have been killed in police operations or by vigilante groups. his tendency towards international isolation is a further cause for concern. at a time when south—east asia’s strategic importance is rapidly increasing, i would urge president duterte to step up positive engagement with international actors, including the eu and un, rather than threaten a retreat. i call upon the high representative, mrs mogherini, and the commission to extend a hand of friendship but, at the same time, to make it clear to the duterte regime that the consequences will be dire.
author. – mr president, nearly five years on since the expulsion of al—shabab from mogadishu, the security situation in somalia has clearly improved. as we now head towards democratic elections, those developments are clearly very welcome. however, the picture is still mixed. whilst yesterday leaders from neighbouring countries attended a summit hosted in mogadishu for the first time in decades, this cannot allow us to ignore the fact that, only two weeks earlier, at least ten people were killed in a terrorist attack outside the presidential palace. continued and improved eu support for the african union mission to somalia (amisom) is therefore vital, just as it is important to ensure the political support for the hugely anti-piracy and very successful csdp mission eu navfor atalanta in the indian ocean off the coast of somalia. this should be strengthened. i also take this personal opportunity to encourage official talks between the somaliland authorities in hargeisa and the government in mogadishu. the union was never approved by a referendum and it is only right that the re-recognition of an independent somaliland can remain open politically through peaceful negotiation. the status quo in place since 1991 is to the detriment of both sides and of course to the long-term stability of the horn of africa.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, with elections this year, somalia is in a crucial period of transition. it is in all our interests that it does not miss its date with history, yet no ballot can bring about improvement unless fundamental rights are respected and there is minimal degree of stability. we need to make sure that the african union's peacekeeping force amisom does its job protecting civilians and that accountability is insured for all allegations of abuse, indiscriminate killings and sexual exploitation. as the biggest contributor to amisom, the eu can play a key role by monitoring programmes and bolstering investigation and prosecution capacity. i also urge somalian authorities, federal and regional, to put an immediate stop to harassment of journalists and protect them from terrorist attacks carried out by al-shabab. crucially, if there is any hope for somalia to have a bright future it starts with its younger generation.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted to support the appointment of sir julian king because we are pleased that he has committed to making sure existing eu legislation in the field of security is implemented by national governments, and that he has confirmed he would work closely with the european parliament to ensure this was achieved. he has also reassured us that further work would be carried out to combat radicalisation, and that fundamental rights would be central to an effective security strategy. it is also important that the commissioner-designate has committed to carrying out a comprehensive review of all existing eu security measures, which will enable us to assess what measures work well and where legislation is not effectively implemented by member states.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted to support the appointment of sir julian king because we are pleased that he has committed to making sure existing eu legislation in the field of security is implemented by national governments, and that he has confirmed he would work closely with the european parliament to ensure this was achieved. he has also reassured us that further work would be carried out to combat radicalisation, and that fundamental rights would be central to an effective security strategy. it is also important that the commissioner-designate has committed to carrying out a comprehensive review of all existing eu security measures, which will enable us to assess what measures work well and where legislation is not effectively implemented by member states.
madam president, there are actually going to be a few aspects of this job that i am going to miss. i will miss the glint of the westering sun on the façade of strasbourg cathedral. i am actually going to miss the company of some of my colleagues here. we do not agree very often, but they are good friends and loyal and engaging companions. but i am not going to miss wasting our time on these utterly pointless resolutions about whether they should have the death penalty in the philippines and whether the zimbabwean government is doing enough for women’s rights. can i tell you, no one in those countries knows or cares what we think. the idea that they are waiting in manila to see what the european parliament’s resolution on human rights in the philippines has decreed is beyond a joke. and the reason we are doing it is not because we think it is going to have any impact on the real world. we are doing it to make ourselves feel better or, more precisely, we are doing it to send a signal to the world about what very nice people we are. it is the ultimate moralistic form of lawmaking and it is this kind of thinking that led to the failures of schengen and the euro and all the rest of it, because we were projecting our values, rather than looking at the reality. this is not going to be britain’s problem for very much longer, but of course we have a continuing interest in the prosperity of our friends and allies – and i would urge you, my friends, to focus on the things where we can make a difference, rather than using legislation as a way of sending a message.
in writing. – ukip meps voted to abstain on this legislative report. whilst ukip supports the accelerated return of migrants who are illegally staying in europe, we do not support the creation of an eu harmonised travel document that progresses eu integration.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. this proposed regulation is essentially a deportation charter. the focus of the proposal is to create a common eu travel document to be issued – with the sole purpose of deportation – only to third-country nationals in the eu ‘illegally’. this eu deportation passport would be uniform and mandatory for member states to use. it would be printed in only an eu or one third-county language, so most people affected by it would not be able to read it; the document is to specify ‘distinguishing features’; it would contain personal data; and it would be managed by eurodac and the schengen information service. recognition of this deportation document would also be a prerequisite for any third-country migration/asylum cooperation with the eu. for the above reasons, i voted against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the grounds that this regulation will not impact upon the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to abstain on this legislative report. whilst ukip supports the accelerated return of migrants who are illegally staying in europe, we do not support the creation of an eu harmonised travel document that progresses eu integration.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report. eu countries currently face serious difficulties when repatriating migrants back to their home countries due to the fact that the documents used to facilitate the journey are not recognised by the countries of return. having a single, unified eu document can be viewed as a diplomatic tool which will assist member states in carrying out safer returns. the uk has opted out of the proposal and will not be affected by this legislation.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to abstain on this legislative report. whilst ukip supports the accelerated return of migrants who are illegally staying in europe, we do not support the creation of an eu harmonised travel document that progresses eu integration.
in writing. – with my ukip colleagues, i voted to abstain on this legislative report. whilst ukip supports the accelerated return of migrants who are illegally staying in europe, we do not support the creation of an eu harmonised travel document that progresses eu integration.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report. eu countries currently face serious difficulties when repatriating migrants back to their home countries due to the fact that the documents used to facilitate the journey are not recognised by the countries of return. having a single, unified eu document can be viewed as a diplomatic tool which will assist member states in carrying out safer returns. the uk has opted out of the proposal and will not be affected by this legislation.
in writing. – the british conservatives fully support the aims and outcome of this proposal. the need to increase the rate of returns and readmission of failed asylum seekers is essential if europe is to tackle the migrant crisis effectively. this report is an important step towards reforming the current system of eu returns. however, the uk does not participate in the european common asylum system and has not opted in to this measure. therefore, the uk conservative delegation will continue its longstanding position of abstaining on reports in relation to policies which the uk has not opted in to.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report. eu countries currently face serious difficulties when repatriating migrants back to their home countries due to the fact that the documents used to facilitate the journey are not recognised by the countries of return. having a single, unified eu document can be viewed as a diplomatic tool which will assist member states in carrying out safer returns. the uk has opted out of the proposal and will not be affected by this legislation.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted to abstain on this legislative report. whilst ukip supports the accelerated return of migrants who are illegally staying in europe, we do not support the creation of an eu harmonised travel document that progresses eu integration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. eu countries currently face serious difficulties when repatriating migrants back to their home countries due to the fact that the documents used to facilitate the journey are not recognised by the countries of return. having a single, unified eu document can be viewed as a diplomatic tool which will assist member states in carrying out safer returns. the uk has opted out of the proposal and will not be affected by this legislation.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report. eu countries currently face serious difficulties when repatriating migrants back to their home countries due to the fact that the documents used to facilitate the journey are not recognised by the countries of return. having a single, unified eu document can be viewed as a diplomatic tool which will assist member states in carrying out safer returns. the uk has opted out of the proposal and will not be affected by this legislation.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report. eu countries currently face serious difficulties when repatriating migrants back to their home countries due to the fact that the documents used to facilitate the journey are not recognised by the countries of return. having a single, unified eu document can be viewed as a diplomatic tool which will assist member states in carrying out safer returns. the uk has opted out of the proposal and will not be affected by this legislation.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the proposal grants the regulator (esma) and the commission powers to issue delegated acts: ukip is therefore against it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a ‘prospectus’ – an information and disclosure document – that must be provided to investors in the context of seeking to raise capital on the capital markets. the proposed regulation is part of the capital markets union (cmu). the commission wants further to harmonise the prospectus regime in the eu so that it will be easier for companies and investors to buy and sell bonds and shares. the proposed measures specifically aim to: reduce the administrative burden of drawing up prospectuses for all issuers, in particular for smes and frequent issuers of securities and secondary issuances; make the prospectus a more relevant disclosure tool for potential investors, especially in smes; and achieve greater convergence between the eu prospectus and other eu disclosure rules. we are in favour of maximum disclosure on risk to consumers, so we oppose some of the exemptions, but we are also fundamentally opposed to the cmu. because of the cmu aspects in the report, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ among other reasons, i voted against this resolution because it grants the commission authority to issue and adopt regulatory technical standards.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the proposal grants the regulator (esma) and the commission powers to issue delegated acts, therefore ukip is against it.
in writing. ‒ i support this report’s aim of simplifying the rules and procedures for companies to issue a prospectus, allowing investors to make informed decisions, but enhancing smes’ access to finance. at the moment, smes often face disproportionate and unfair costs when drawing up a prospectus, and this dampens growth and expansion in that sector of the economy.
in writing. ‒ the report on prospectuses is a key part of the capital markets union (cmu), and will help improve access to funding for smes, of which there are 400 000 in my west midlands constituency. among the key features of this report is the fact that prospectuses are to be streamlined, thus reducing legal costs and red tape. in addition, in order to deepen integration of eu capital markets, we need to see less fragmentation of practices across member states. as well as broadening the range of financing available to smes, we are also improving investor protection rules. this report shifts the focus of the prospectus from an exercise in lining the pockets of banks and lawyers to improving funding for smes and delivering the jobs and growth that we need.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the proposal grants the regulator (esma) and the commission powers to issue delegated acts, therefore ukip is against it.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the proposal grants the regulator (esma) and the commission powers to issue delegated acts, therefore ukip is against it.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the proposal grants the regulator (esma) and the commission powers to issue delegated acts, therefore ukip is against it.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the proposal grants the regulator (esma) and the commission powers to issue delegated acts, therefore ukip is against it.
in writing. – ukip meps voted against this consultation procedure vote, which is technically non-legislative. ukip rejects the role of the european border and coast guard in the migration crisis. moreover, ukip also opposes the compulsory resettlement of migrants across eu nations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report and voted in favour. the report is strong on protecting the concept of shared responsibility for the refugee crisis, and it calls for safe and legal access for refugees, is committed to family reunification, acknowledges the dire situation in greece and italy and seeks to add afghan refugees to the relocation category.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that the european union should play a role in asylum, a matter which in my view is subject to the sovereignty of member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this consultation procedure vote, which is technically non-legislative. ukip rejects the role of the european border and coast guard in the migration crisis. moreover, ukip opposes the compulsory resettlement of migrants across eu nations.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of this report, which signals another call on member states to uphold their responsibility and show solidarity by taking part in relocation and resettlement measures. countries on the periphery, such as greece and italy, are still struggling to respond to the thousands of refugees and asylum-seekers that are arriving. we believe that resettlement should not take place at the expense of relocation: both are important instruments of solidarity. relocation is a form of internal solidarity among member states, while resettlement and humanitarian admission or other kinds of admission are a form of external solidarity with third countries hosting the majority of refugees.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this consultation procedure proposal, which is technically non-legislative. ukip rejects the role of the european border and coast guard in the migration crisis. moreover, ukip also opposes the compulsory resettlement of migrants across eu nations.
in writing. – ukip meps voted against this consultation procedure proposal, which is technically non-legislative. ukip rejects the role of the european border and coast guard in the migration crisis. moreover, ukip also opposes the compulsory resettlement of migrants across eu nations.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of this report, which signals another call on member states to uphold their responsibility and show solidarity by taking part in relocation and resettlement measures. countries on the periphery such as greece and italy are still struggling to respond to the thousands of refugees and asylum-seekers that are arriving. we believe that resettlement should not take place at the expense of relocation. both are important instruments of solidarity. relocation is a form of internal solidarity among member states, while resettlement and humanitarian admission or other kinds of admission are a form of external solidarity with third countries hosting the majority of refugees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which signals another call on member states to uphold their responsibility and show solidarity by taking part in relocation and resettlement measures. countries on the periphery, such as greece and italy, are still struggling to respond to the thousands of refugees and asylum-seekers who are arriving. we believe that resettlement should not take place at the expense of relocation. both are important instruments of solidarity. relocation is a form of internal solidarity among member states, while resettlement and humanitarian admission or other kinds of admission are forms of external solidarity with third countries hosting the majority of refugees.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this consultation procedure proposal, which is technically non-legislative. ukip rejects the role of the european border and coast guard in the migration crisis. moreover, ukip also opposes the compulsory resettlement of migrants across eu nations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this consultation procedure proposal, which is technically non-legislative. ukip rejects the role of the european border and coast guard in the migration crisis. moreover, ukip also opposes the compulsory resettlement of migrants across eu nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which signals another call on member states to uphold their responsibility and show solidarity by taking part in relocation and resettlement measures. countries on the periphery, such as greece and italy, are still struggling to respond to the thousands of refugees and asylum-seekers who are arriving. we believe that resettlement should not take place at the expense of relocation. both are important instruments of solidarity. relocation is a form of internal solidarity among member states, while resettlement and humanitarian admission or other kinds of admission are forms of external solidarity with third countries hosting the majority of refugees.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report, which signals another call on member states to uphold their responsibility and show solidarity by taking part in relocation and resettlement measures. countries on the periphery, such as greece and italy, are still struggling to respond to the thousands of refugees and asylum-seekers who continue to arrive in europe. we believe that resettlement should not take place at the expense of relocation. both are important instruments of solidarity. relocation is a form of internal solidarity among member states, while resettlement and humanitarian admission or other kinds of admission are forms of external solidarity with third countries hosting the majority of refugees.
in writing. – ukip voted against this consultation procedure proposal, which is technically non-legislative. it is written into the treaties (tfeu article 148) that the eu should coordinate employment policy between all member states and this is a procedure that is voted on every year. the proposal creates vague goals without specific actions as to what the member states should be focusing on. this proposal includes things like ‘increasing labour participation and reducing structural employment’ and ‘develop a skilled workforce’. this all sounds ok, but ultimately it is the eu trying to control member states and tell them what their employment policies should be. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ this report included several good aspects such as calling for public investment, job creation, and support for workers’ rights. however, it calls for all of this within the confines of the european stability and growth pact as well as the european semester. these two things are almost diametrically opposed – you cannot have a decent level of investment etc. while you are in a fiscal straight jacket. because of the positive aspects around workers’ rights etc. i did not vote against this report, but i could not support it either, given the confines in which it wishes to place investment and job creation, i.e. the stability and growth pact and european semester. for these reasons i abstained on the overall report.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that national employment policies should be coordinated by the european union, and therefore i voted against this resolution on principle.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this consultation procedure vote, which is technically non-legislative. it is written in to the treaties (tfeu article 148) that the eu should coordinate employment policy between all member states and this is a procedure that is voted on every year. the proposal creates vague goals without specific actions as to what the member states should be focussing on. this proposal includes things like ‘increasing labour participation and reducing structural employment’ and ‘develop a skilled workforce’. this all sounds ok, but ultimately it is the eu trying to control member states and tell them what their employment policies should be. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report which encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aiming at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, to create sustainable employment and to ensure decent working conditions including social protection.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this consultation procedure vote, which is technically non-legislative. it is written in to the treaties (tfeu article 148) that the eu should coordinate employment policy between all member states and this is a procedure that is voted on every year. the proposal creates vague goals without specific actions as to what the member states should be focussing on. this proposal includes things like ‘increasing labour participation and reducing structural employment’ and ‘develop a skilled workforce’. this all sounds ok, but ultimately it is the eu trying to control member states and tell them what their employment policies should be. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – ukip voted against this consultation procedure vote, which is technically non-legislative. it is written in to the treaties (tfeu article 148) that the eu should coordinate employment policy between all member states and this is a procedure that is voted on every year. the proposal creates vague goals without specific actions as to what the member states should be focussing on. this proposal includes things like ‘increasing labour participation and reducing structural employment’ and ‘develop a skilled workforce’. this all sounds ok, but ultimately it is the eu trying to control member states and tell them what their employment policies should be. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report which encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aiming at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, to create sustainable employment and to ensure decent working conditions including social protection.
in writing. ‒ at present, 16.8% of uk citizens are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. today the eplp voted in favour of a report which encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aiming at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, create sustainable employment and ensure decent working conditions including social protection.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this consultation procedure vote, which is technically non-legislative. it is written in to the treaties (tfeu article 148) that the eu should coordinate employment policy between all member states and this is a procedure that is voted on every year. the proposal creates vague goals without specific actions as to what the member states should be focussing on. this proposal includes things like ‘increasing labour participation and reducing structural employment’ and ‘develop a skilled workforce’. this all sounds ok, but ultimately it is the eu trying to control member states and tell them what their employment policies should be. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this consultation procedure vote, which is technically non-legislative. it is written in to the treaties (tfeu article 148) that the eu should coordinate employment policy between all member states and this is a procedure that is voted on every year. the proposal creates vague goals without specific actions as to what the member states should be focussing on. this proposal includes things like ‘increasing labour participation and reducing structural employment’ and ‘develop a skilled workforce’. this all sounds ok, but ultimately it is the eu trying to control member states and tell them what their employment policies should be. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ at present, 16.8% of uk citizens are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. today the eplp voted in favour of a report which encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aiming at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, create sustainable employment and ensure decent working conditions including social protection.
in writing. ‒ at present, 16.8% of uk citizens are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. today the eplp voted in favour of a report which encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aiming at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, create sustainable employment and ensure decent working conditions including social protection.
in writing. ‒ at present, 16.8% of uk citizens are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. therefore, i voted together with my eplp colleagues in favour of a report that encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aimed at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, thereby creating sustainable employment and ensuring decent working conditions including social protection. since being elected, i have consistently worked to include a gender equality and women’s rights perspective at the heart of policy-making on employment and women’s representation and access to labour markets. eu policies have continuously advanced gender equality for decades, and it is crucial that uk citizens continue to enjoy those benefits in years to come, despite the recent referendum vote which risks further progress in these matters.
madam president, today i welcome the steps taken by the eu to become part of the global fight against illegal wildlife trade by becoming a party to cites. the battle against this heinous crime cannot be fought or won in isolation, and this marks an important step in acknowledging that and responding. it is estimated that this illicit trade and criminal activity has a value of between eur 8 billion and eur 20 billion per year, and the profits from it prop up corrupt regimes and criminals across the world. only by stemming the funds from such crime will we really enable development and trade efforts for certain nations to be fully realised. europe is not only the destination, but is also a transitional market for these goods and their illicit supply chains, and much can be done to tackle this across a range of policy fields. therefore, whilst we take this international step forward, we should also look at the domestic market and continue to encourage all member states to end trade in illicit goods, and specifically in ivory. overall, this is a positive step in terms of joining the global fight against the trade in illegal wildlife products, and we should be an active party to cites, driving the agenda forward.
madam president, i was happy to support this resolution because i consider it extremely important to combat all forms of the so-called zoo-mafia, that is to say, organised crime that makes money from the smuggling of animals. whether it is wildlife, which is the case at this international conference, where i hope our representatives will go with a strong mandate, or the smuggling of animals within the european union from central and eastern europe to the western parts of the eu, which affects dogs and cats, and the so-called breeding grounds. as it happens, i'm holding a big conference and debate on this subject in prague tomorrow. it's an important topic that at first glance seems like a marginal topic, but it's been said, the zoo-mafia, this organized crime, is the second or third (according to various statistics) most lucrative criminal activity in the world next to the drug trade and other illegal things. so we shouldn't underestimate it and we should pay close attention to it.
in writing. – with regard to the motion for a resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in johannesburg (south africa) from 24 september to 5 october 2016, this vote is not about cites itself. we support the objectives of the cites convention, but this vote is about enhancing the status of the european commission within the cites structure, which we are not prepared to support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the motion comes ahead of the 17th meeting of the parties to the convention on international trade in in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), of which the eu is now a member (as of 2015), and it calls for further action in cracking down on illegal trafficking of wildlife, which is still widespread.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency and democracy, given that the vote is not subject to a roll-call, i wish to confirm that i abstained on this resolution. whilst i fully support efforts to protect endangered species, this vote also concerns enhancing the status of the european commission to the detriment of national authorities. as it appears to be a power grab, i cannot support it overall.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the motion for a resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in johannesburg (south africa) from 24 september to 5 october 2016, this vote is not about cites itself. we support the objectives of the cites convention, but this vote is about enhancing the status of the european commission within the cites structure, which we are not prepared to support.
in writing. ‒ as a proud proponent of animal welfare, i am pleased to support this resolution. it makes a number of key recommendations on improving the reporting of wildlife trafficking, tackling corruption and establishing international standards on the trade in hunting trophies.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the motion for a resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in johannesburg (south africa) from 24 september to 5 october 2016, this vote is not about cites itself. we support the objectives of the cites convention, but this vote is about enhancing the status of the european commission within the cites structure, which we are not prepared to support.
in writing. – with regard to the motion for a resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in johannesburg (south africa) from 24 september to 5 october 2016, this vote is not about cites itself. we support the objectives of the cites convention, but this vote is about enhancing the status of the european commission within the cites structure, which we are not prepared to support.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the motion for a resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in johannesburg (south africa) from 24 september to 5 october 2016, this vote is not about cites itself. we support the objectives of the cites convention, but this vote is about enhancing the status of the european commission within the cites structure, which we are not prepared to support.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the motion for a resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in johannesburg (south africa) from 24 september to 5 october 2016, this vote is not about cites itself. we support the objectives of the cites convention, but this vote is about enhancing the status of the european commission within the cites structure, which we are not prepared to support.
madam president, i was happy to support this motion because, as a member of the imco committee, i consider the digital market to be the main topic on the agenda of this committee for this parliamentary term. however, the digital market can only work, for example, if goods sold online can be delivered quickly and cheaply across europe. so the question of mail, the question of shipping and the demolition of borders between countries is extremely important, it's not just about how expensive the packages will be sold, but if we want a digital economy, we need to be able to move electronically sold goods quickly across europe, so that's a good idea.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report because the uk already has an established national regulatory authority (nra) and has already proven that it is able to monitor the delivery network without the interference of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which followed a review of the application of the postal services directive across the eu. this directive has been disastrous for public services, jobs and workers’ rights in ireland and throughout the eu. the liberalisation of postal services under the directive has resulted in the closure of post offices across ireland, and the postal service in the north especially has been decimated as a result. the report supported the ongoing implementation of the directive, and for that reason i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the united kingdom already has a highly competent national regulatory authority in the field of postal services. many of the problems within the uk postal service, such as post office closures, etc., are directly or indirectly linked to the eu postal services directives. consequently i voted against this report, which completely misses the point of the problems.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report because the uk already has an established national regulatory authority (nra) and has already proven that it is able to monitor the delivery network without the interference of the eu.
in writing. ‒ eu rules on postal services guarantee all citizens the right to affordable and regular postal deliveries, and this review of the eu postal market makes clear that such rights need to be protected. the review also recognises the continued growth in online shopping options and alternative postal services. it is vital that eu rules on post and parcel delivery are fit for purpose, ensuring reliable delivery options for consumers and businesses whilst also protecting those working in the sector through safe and secure employment conditions.
in writing. ‒ eu rules on postal services guarantee all citizens the right to affordable and regular postal deliveries, and this review of the eu postal market makes clear that such rights need to be protected. the review also recognises the continued growth in online shopping options and alternative postal services. it is vital that eu rules on post and parcel delivery are fit for purpose, ensuring reliable delivery options for consumers and businesses whilst also protecting those working in the sector through safe and secure employment conditions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report because the uk already has an established national regulatory authority (nra) and has already proven that it is able to monitor the delivery network without the interference of the eu.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report because the uk already has an established national regulatory authority (nra) and has already proven that it is able to monitor the delivery network without the interference of the eu.
in writing. ‒ eu rules on postal services guarantee all citizens the right to affordable and regular postal deliveries, and this review of the eu postal market makes clear that these rights need to be protected. the review also recognises the continued growth in online shopping options and alternative postal services. it is vital that eu rules on post and parcel delivery are fit for purpose, ensuring reliable delivery options for consumers and businesses whilst also protecting those working in the sector through safe and secure employment conditions.
in writing. ‒ eu rules on postal services guarantee all citizens the right to affordable and regular postal deliveries, and this review of the eu postal market makes clear that such rights need to be protected. the review also recognises the continued growth in online shopping options and alternative postal services. it is vital that eu rules on post and parcel delivery are fit for purpose, ensuring reliable delivery options for consumers and businesses whilst also protecting those working in the sector through safe and secure employment conditions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report because the uk already has an established national regulatory authority (nra) and has already proven that it is able to monitor the delivery network without the interference of the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report because the uk already has an established national regulatory authority (nra) and has already proven that it is able to monitor the delivery network without the interference of the eu.
in writing. ‒ eu rules on postal services guarantee all citizens the right to affordable and regular postal deliveries, and this review of the eu postal market makes clear that such rights need to be protected. the review also recognises the continued growth in online shopping options and alternative postal services. it is vital that eu rules on post and parcel delivery are fit for purpose, ensuring reliable delivery options for consumers and businesses whilst also protecting those working in the sector through safe and secure employment conditions.
in writing. ‒ eu rules on postal services guarantee all citizens the right to affordable and regular postal deliveries, and this review of the eu postal market makes clear that such rights need to be protected. the review also recognises the continued growth in online shopping options and alternative postal services. it is vital that eu rules on post and parcel delivery are fit for purpose, ensuring reliable delivery options for consumers and businesses whilst also protecting those working in the sector through safe and secure employment conditions.
in writing. ‒ eu rules on postal services guarantee all citizens the right to affordable and regular postal deliveries, and this review of the eu postal market makes clear that such rights need to be protected. the review also recognises the continued growth in online shopping options and alternative postal services. it is vital that eu rules on post and parcel delivery are fit for purpose, ensuring reliable delivery options for consumers and businesses whilst also protecting those working in the sector through safe and secure employment conditions.
madam president, i was also happy to support this report because yesterday there was a debate on the position of smes in europe. their position is extremely important for the success of the european economy, and as i know and as i know from my country, the czech republic, one of the problems for smes is access to capital, access to money. especially if they want to do business in areas that at first glance don't seem very profitable, but are important because they preserve some traditional crafts or some traditional local regional production. so this material, which deals with the question of how to make it easier for smes to access credit and capital, i consider extremely important and if part of the money that the european union uses for support and development of individual regions within its cohesion policy is used to support smes in the field of lending, i think it would be right.
in writing. – different legal systems, cultures, languages, country-specific credit risks and the potential for capital controls (as used in greece and cyprus) in the likely event of euro-break-up make capital markets union a distraction from more pressing matters (such as planning for an orderly break-up of the euro). accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the report proposes that the best way to boost smes in the eu is by pushing forward with the capital markets union, which will promote the shadow banking sector that played a fundamental role in causing the 2008 financial crash and economic crisis. there are some positive calls in there for increasing smes’ access to credit from banks and eu funds, but the overall proposal is for the development of new financial vehicles based on securitisation and risk-sharing instruments, and this will supposedly solve the problem.
in writing. ‒ smes function best when they are subject to the minimum necessary regulation and the minimum necessary taxation. it is absurd to heavily tax and regulate them, then provide state subsidies to those deemed worthy. this completely misunderstands the free market; as a supporter of smes i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ different legal systems, cultures, languages, country-specific credit risks and the potential for capital controls (as used in greece and cyprus) in the likely event of euro-break-up make capital markets union a distraction from more pressing matters (such as planning for an orderly break-up of the euro). accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ smes are the lifeblood of our economy, so i welcome this report's support for enhancing their access to different funding sources, and reduction in the overall tax burden and lower taxes for businesses. without continued support for smes, growth and financing the wider economy will suffer, leading to a drop in overall exchequer revenues.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises form a substantial part of the eu economy. in the uk, they account for 99.7% of all enterprises and 53.3% of the number of employees. four banks account for 85% of lending to small businesses. i voted for this report because it calls for improvement in bank lending to smes and for a diversification of credit sources.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises form a substantial part of the eu economy. in the uk, they account for 99.7% of all enterprises and 53.3% of the number of employees. four banks account for 85% of lending to small businesses. i voted for this report because it calls for improvement in bank lending to smes and for a diversification of credit sources.
in writing. ‒ different legal systems, cultures, languages, country-specific credit risks and the potential for capital controls (as used in greece and cyprus) in the likely event of euro-break-up make capital markets union a distraction from more pressing matters (such as planning for an orderly break-up of the euro). accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – different legal systems, cultures, languages, country-specific credit risks and the potential for capital controls (as used in greece and cyprus) in the likely event of euro-break-up make capital markets union a distraction from more pressing matters (such as planning for an orderly break-up of the euro). accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because it calls for improvements in bank lending to smes and for a diversification of credit sources.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises form a substantial part of the eu economy. in the uk, they account for 99.7% of all enterprises and 53.3% of the number of employees. four banks account for 85% of lending to small businesses. i voted for the report because it calls for improvements in bank lending to smes and for a diversification of credit sources.
in writing. ‒ different legal systems, cultures, languages, country-specific credit risks and the potential for capital controls (as used in greece and cyprus) in the likely event of euro-break-up make capital markets union a distraction from more pressing matters (such as planning for an orderly break-up of the euro). accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ different legal systems, cultures, languages, country-specific credit risks and the potential for capital controls (as used in greece and cyprus) in the likely event of euro-break-up make capital markets union a distraction from more pressing matters (such as planning for an orderly break-up of the euro). accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises form a substantial part of the eu economy. in the uk, they account for 99.7% of all enterprises and 53.3% of the number of employees. there are 378 000 smes in the west midlands alone. the report addresses the diverse funding needs of a diverse sme sector, bank lending to smes and non-bank sources for sme funding. as shadow rapporteur, i made sure that the report addresses issues faced by smes in my region and throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises form a substantial part of the eu economy. in the uk, they account for 99.7% of all enterprises and 53.3% of the number of employees. four banks account for 85% of lending to small businesses. i voted for this report because it calls for improvement in bank lending to smes and for a diversification of credit sources.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises form a substantial part of the eu economy. in the uk, they account for 99.7% of all enterprises and 53.3% of the number of employees. four banks account for 85% of lending to small businesses. i voted for this report because it calls for improvement in bank lending to smes and for a diversification of credit sources.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. although the report seeks to tell the commission and member states that more needs to be done to help smes and reduce the regulatory burden (which in principle ukip supports), it then goes on to call for wide ranging commission action and further legislation. the initial report seeks to tell member states what their taxation policy should be, calls to create an eu framework regulation for pan-eu crowd funding and welcomes an eu proposal on business insolvency among many other things. if it wasn’t due to the cost of eu regulation and overly bureaucratic eu red tape smes would have a much better chance at growing. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. while i fully support the concept that smes have a lot of potential for job creation, the report placed far too much emphasis on reducing protection, rights, wages and conditions for workers. while it had some positive calls for further education and training of workers and access to support for smes, it also included negative calls for the promotion of temporary work by the commission and member states, as well as for ‘regulatory burdens’ in health and safety to be reduced. due to the generally neoliberal, anti-worker approach of the report i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report seeks to encourage the commission and member states to take into account the needs of smes and try to lift the burden on them. in principle this sounds great, but the report goes on to call for far—reaching commission action and legislation. it discusses taxation policy, information campaigns, data collection and legislative action.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. although the report seeks to tell the commission and member states that more needs to be done to help smes and reduce the regulatory burden (which in principle ukip supports), it then goes on to call for wide ranging commission action and further legislation. the initial report seeks to tell member states what their taxation policy should be, calls to create an eu framework regulation for pan-eu crowd funding and welcomes an eu proposal on business insolvency among many other things. if it wasn’t due to the cost of eu regulation and overly bureaucratic eu red tape smes would have a much better chance at growing. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome my colleague’s report, and its focus on creating a good environment for smes to grow and create jobs, particularly addressing a number of key issues including skills mismatches, regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens.
in writing. – mr president, i voted in favour of this report as a good example of how the eu can help its citizens. expansion of employment and innovative business practices should be a core focus of the eu. in addressing key issues such as skills mismatches, regulatory uncertainty, administrative burdens and access to finance, this report showcases how the eu can work for its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which proposes means of improving the job creation potential of smes while emphasising the need for high standards of protection of workers. the report advocates quality job creation, high standards for workers’ protection and calls for means to overcome the gender pay gap.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. although the report seeks to tell the commission and member states that more needs to be done to help smes and reduce the regulatory burden (which in principle ukip supports), it then goes on to call for wide ranging commission action and further legislation. the initial report seeks to tell member states what their taxation policy should be, calls to create an eu framework regulation for pan-eu crowd funding and welcomes an eu proposal on business insolvency among many other things. if it wasn’t due to the cost of eu regulation and overly bureaucratic eu red tape smes would have a much better chance at growing. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. although the report seeks to tell the commission and member states that more needs to be done to help smes and reduce the regulatory burden (which in principle ukip supports), it then goes on to call for wide ranging commission action and further legislation. the initial report seeks to tell member states what their taxation policy should be, calls to create an eu framework regulation for pan-eu crowd funding and welcomes an eu proposal on business insolvency among many other things. if it wasn’t due to the cost of eu regulation and overly bureaucratic eu red tape smes would have a much better chance at growing. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which proposes means of improving the job creation potential of smes while emphasising the need for high standards of protection of workers. the report advocates quality jobs creation, high standards for workers’ protection and calls for means to overcome the gender pay gap.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes means of improving the job creation potential of smes while emphasising the need for a high standard of protection of workers. the report advocates quality job creation, high standards for workers’ protection and calls for means to overcome the gender pay gap.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. although the report seeks to tell the commission and member states that more needs to be done to help smes and reduce the regulatory burden (which in principle ukip supports), it then goes on to call for wide ranging commission action and further legislation. the initial report seeks to tell member states what their taxation policy should be, calls to create an eu framework regulation for pan-eu crowd funding and welcomes an eu proposal on business insolvency among many other things. if it wasn’t due to the cost of eu regulation and overly bureaucratic eu red tape smes would have a much better chance at growing. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. although the report seeks to tell the commission and member states that more needs to be done to help smes and reduce the regulatory burden (which in principle ukip supports), it then goes on to call for wide ranging commission action and further legislation. the initial report seeks to tell member states what their taxation policy should be, calls to create an eu framework regulation for pan-eu crowd funding and welcomes an eu proposal on business insolvency among many other things. if it wasn’t due to the cost of eu regulation and overly bureaucratic eu red tape smes would have a much better chance at growing. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes means of improving the job creation potential of smes while emphasising the need for high standard of protection of workers. the report advocates quality jobs creation, high standards for workers’ protection and calls for means to overcome the gender pay gap.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes means of improving the job creation potential of smes while emphasising the need for high standard of protection of workers. the report advocates quality job creation, high standards for workers’ protection and calls for means to overcome the gender pay gap.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes means of improving the job creation potential of smes while emphasising the need for high standard of protection of workers. the report advocates quality jobs creation, high standards for workers’ protection and calls for means to overcome the gender pay gap. any strategy on smes must include support for cooperatives and alternative business models that have so much potential for a more ethical way of doing business, and bringing more flexibility and accountability to the private sector. we must also ensure that vulnerable excluded groups have access to entrepreneurship education, particularly women and girls, who face greater obstacles and prejudice. we must make sure that we share best practice on enabling women and girls to become entrepreneurs.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative, own-initiative report. this vote wasn’t on the legislation itself, but on how it was being implemented. the report covered a wide range of sensitive issues such as discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, nationality sexual orientation etc., and rightly condemned aspects such as harassment and violence. however the report then went on to call for wide-reaching commission action and eu legislation such as data collection, information campaigns, adopting the eu framework on racism and called for further harmonisation of laws regarding secularism. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. while ukip cannot support more eu action and spending of taxpayer’s money, we do not want to appear to oppose equality or against fighting discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this positive report examining the application of the employment equality directive across the eu. the report contains strong and positive proposals about achieving workplace and social equality for lgbti people, women and parents, anti-discrimination elements around race, religion and gender, as well as positive aspects around equality for people with disabilities in the workplace.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights that smes can become overburdened with too many rules. we have seen the impact of eu rules in watching british smes go out of business. however, as always with this kind of report it goes on to ask the commission to collect more data from smes, organise information campaigns and interfere in many areas of national policy. the report also ‘considers it necessary that the commission provides private companies, including smes and micro companies with models for equality and diversity frameworks.’
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. social dumping is of course a huge problem with cheap labour being brought over from other countries by companies to undercut wages and avoid employing local workers. it also covers issues like companies finding cheaper alternatives elsewhere and moving operations abroad. however this report went on to call for more eu action, legislation, monitoring of legislation and data collection. on top of that there isn’t an official legal definition of ‘social dumping’ in eu law, so this report is about an issue the eu can’t even define properly. the eu can never tackle social dumping as the free movement of people is the perfect enabler for it to occur. also the eu’s posted workers directive actually enables employers to bring cheap labour over to undercut the local community. the only way to stop social dumping is to leave the eu and get back control of immigration.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative, own-initiative report. this vote wasn’t on the legislation itself, but on how it was being implemented. the report covered a wide range of sensitive issues such as discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, nationality sexual orientation etc., and rightly condemned aspects such as harassment and violence. however the report then went on to call for wide-reaching commission action and eu legislation such as data collection, information campaigns, adopting the eu framework on racism and called for further harmonisation of laws regarding secularism. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. while ukip cannot support more eu action and spending of taxpayer’s money, we do not want to appear to oppose equality or against fighting discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls for a comprehensive approach on combating discrimination in employment and occupation. we urgently need to adapt workplaces and to provide assistance, education and training for people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative, own-initiative report. this vote wasn’t on the legislation itself, but on how it was being implemented. the report covered a wide range of sensitive issues such as discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, nationality sexual orientation etc., and rightly condemned aspects such as harassment and violence. however the report then went on to call for wide-reaching commission action and eu legislation such as data collection, information campaigns, adopting the eu framework on racism and called for further harmonisation of laws regarding secularism. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. while ukip cannot support more eu action and spending of taxpayer’s money, we do not want to appear to oppose equality or against fighting discrimination.
in writing. – diane james and her ukip mep colleagues abstained on this non-legislative, own-initiative report. this vote wasn’t on the legislation itself, but on how it was being implemented. the report covered a wide range of sensitive issues such as discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, nationality sexual orientation etc., and rightly condemned aspects such as harassment and violence. however the report then went on to call for wide-reaching commission action and eu legislation such as data collection, information campaigns, adopting the eu framework on racism and called for further harmonisation of laws regarding secularism. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. while ukip cannot support more eu action and spending of taxpayer’s money, we do not want to appear to oppose equality or against fighting discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls for a comprehensive approach on combatting discrimination in employment and occupation. we urgently need to adapt workplaces and to provide assistance, education and training for people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which calls for a comprehensive approach on combatting discrimination in employment and occupation. we urgently need to adapt workplaces and to provide assistance, education and training for people with disabilities. in the uk in 2015, only 48% of people with disabilities were in employment.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative, own-initiative report. this vote wasn’t on the legislation itself, but on how it was being implemented. the report covered a wide range of sensitive issues such as discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, nationality sexual orientation etc., and rightly condemned aspects such as harassment and violence. however the report then went on to call for wide-reaching commission action and eu legislation such as data collection, information campaigns, adopting the eu framework on racism and called for further harmonisation of laws regarding secularism. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. while ukip cannot support more eu action and spending of taxpayer’s money, we do not want to appear to oppose equality or against fighting discrimination.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative, own-initiative report. this vote wasn’t on the legislation itself, but on how it was being implemented. the report covered a wide range of sensitive issues such as discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, nationality sexual orientation etc., and rightly condemned aspects such as harassment and violence. however the report then went on to call for wide-reaching commission action and eu legislation such as data collection, information campaigns, adopting the eu framework on racism and called for further harmonisation of laws regarding secularism. the only people that should decide these things are our elected and accountable national governments, not eu bureaucrats in brussels. while ukip cannot support more eu action and spending of taxpayer’s money, we do not want to appear to oppose equality or against fighting discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which calls for a comprehensive approach on combating discrimination in employment and occupation. we urgently need to adapt workplaces and to provide assistance, education and training for people with disabilities. in the uk in 2015, only 48% of people with disabilities were in employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which calls for a comprehensive approach on combating discrimination in employment and occupation. we urgently need to adapt workplaces and to provide assistance, education and training for people with disabilities. in the uk in 2015, only 48% of people with disabilities were in employment.
in writing. ‒ the employment equality directive is a landmark piece of european legislation, which sets out equality at the workplace and prohibits discrimination based on gender, sexual orientation, age, religious belief or disability. this is a prime example of the eu working to create social justice and a level playing field of high employment standards across europe. this is the kind of progressive legislation which leave campaigners would like to scrap. labour meps will continue to fight so that uk citizens will retain the rights and protections the eu provides, regardless of the disastrous referendum outcome. as a champion for the rights of people with disabilities and a member of the disability rights intergroup in the european parliament, i was happy to vote in favour of this report which calls for a comprehensive approach on combating discrimination in employment and occupation. we urgently need to adapt workplaces and to provide assistance, education and training for people with disabilities. in the uk in 2015, only 48% of people with disabilities were in employment.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is basically eu dole money towards which british taxpayers are forced to pay. where there has been a large and sudden loss of jobs in a region of a member state, the government can apply for this eu funding which will be used for retraining and education of workers who have lost their jobs. this report looked at how the egf performed between 2007 and 2014. the report of course says the egf was a glowing success and calls for the programme to expand and have more resources to be dedicated to it. ukip opposes the use of the egf as british taxpayer’s shouldn’t be asked to pay for poor economic policies in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ this was generally a good report and i voted in favour. my sinn féin colleague was involved as negotiator at the committee level where she proposed amendments aiming to increase transparency in the egf process, increase the focus on reaching out to young people not in education, employment or training, and ensure that the funds do not get returned to the commission unspent due to slow implementation or incompetence by national authorities. overall the egf as a fund helps workers when they are in need of help having been made redundant because they are the victims of deindustrialisation, globalisation, or the financial crisis, therefore we supported it.
in writing. ‒ the egaf is the equivalent of the uk’s unemployment benefit. where there has been a sudden loss of jobs in a certain region a member state can apply for this fund and the money will be used to help retrain the redundant workers. between 2007 and 2014 there were 131 funding applications for eur 542 million for 121 380 workers. that is almost eur 4 500 per worker.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is basically eu dole money towards which british taxpayers are forced to pay. where there has been a large and sudden loss of jobs in a region of a member state, the government can apply for this eu funding which will be used for retraining and education of workers who have lost their jobs. this report looked at how the egf performed between 2007 and 2014. the report of course says the egf was a glowing success and calls for the programme to expand and have more resources to be dedicated to it. ukip opposes the use of the egf as british taxpayers shouldn’t be asked to pay for poor economic policies in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this report as the european globalisation adjustment fund has been consistently shown to be an inefficient and ineffective tool for managing large scale redundancies. it is not good value for money and the case has never been made as to why this investment should be made at an eu rather than a national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which examines the activities of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), its effects and the trends of the fund. labour has consistently supported the egf out of solidarity for workers across europe and this report outlines the effectiveness of the fund for its beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is basically eu dole money towards which british taxpayers are forced to pay. where there has been a large and sudden loss of jobs in a region of a member state, the government can apply for this eu funding which will be used for retraining and education of workers who have lost their jobs. this report looked at how the egf performed between 2007 and 2014. the report of course says the egf was a glowing success and calls for the programme to expand and have more resources to be dedicated to it. ukip opposes the use of the egf as british taxpayers shouldn’t be asked to pay for poor economic policies in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is basically eu dole money towards which british taxpayers are forced to pay. where there has been a large and sudden loss of jobs in a region of a member state, the government can apply for this eu funding which will be used for retraining and education of workers who have lost their jobs. this report looked at how the egf performed between 2007 and 2014. the report of course says the egf was a glowing success and calls for the programme to expand and have more resources to be dedicated to it. ukip opposes the use of the egf as british taxpayers shouldn’t be asked to pay for poor economic policies in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which examines the activities of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), its effects and the trends of the fund. labour has consistently supported the egf out of solidarity for workers across europe and this report outlines the effectiveness of the fund for its beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of this report which examines the activities of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), its effects and the trends of the fund. labour has consistently supported the egf out of solidarity for workers across europe and this report outlines the effectiveness of the fund for its beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is basically eu dole money towards which british taxpayers are forced to pay. where there has been a large and sudden loss of jobs in a region of a member state, the government can apply for this eu funding which will be used for retraining and education of workers who have lost their jobs. this report looked at how the egf performed between 2007 and 2014. the report of course says the egf was a glowing success and calls for the programme to expand and have more resources to be dedicated to it. ukip opposes the use of the egf as british taxpayers shouldn’t be asked to pay for poor economic policies in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative, own-initiative report. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is basically eu dole money towards which british taxpayers are forced to pay. where there has been a large and sudden loss of jobs in a region of a member state, the government can apply for this eu funding which will be used for retraining and education of workers who have lost their jobs. this report looked at how the egf performed between 2007 and 2014. the report of course says the egf was a glowing success and calls for the programme to expand and have more resources to be dedicated to it. ukip opposes the use of the egf as british taxpayers shouldn’t be asked to pay for poor economic policies in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which examines the activities of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), its effects and the trends of the fund. labour has consistently supported the egf out of solidarity for workers across europe and this report outlines the effectiveness of the fund for its beneficiaries
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of this report which examines the activities of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), its effects and the trends of the fund. labour has consistently supported the egf out of solidarity for workers across europe and this report outlines the effectiveness of the fund for its beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of this report which examines the activities of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), its effects and the trends of the fund. labour has consistently supported the egf out of solidarity for workers across europe and this report outlines the effectiveness of the fund for its beneficiaries. it particularly highlights the view to see the egf used to its full potential, by calling for it to complement other available instruments and seek consultation of major stakeholders. social solidarity is a core value of the european union, and the egf is an expression of such solidarity. it is an instrument that allows the eu to democratise globalisation, and minimise damage to communities that may be caused by international trade. it is the eu that often steps in when national governments fail to do so.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, colleagues, let me begin by thanking the committee on culture and education coordinators for putting together this oral question on illicit match-fixing. i regret that the commissioner is not here to hear what we have to say this afternoon, and indeed that there are not more members here. perhaps a better time could have been found, because match-fixing poses a significant and worrying threat to sport, something that so many of us love. for fans to follow their sport with a passion that we all want to see, it is necessary that they have the confidence and that any attempts to corrupt sport are cracked down on. they need to know the integrity of sport is there. the ecr are therefore supportive of the council of europe convention and have a strong commitment to tackle match fixing. match-fixing remains a black mark on sport with around eur 12 million paid to players, referees, coaches or officials in order to influence matches in 2012 alone. in the last three months, 24 matches were deemed suspicious based on betting patterns across a variety of sports in europe. sport must remain inspirational and a showcase for the very best in human endeavours. we should therefore be doing all that we can to encourage member states to combat match-fixing, but we should also be pushing for stronger cooperation and partnerships between the sports betting industry and sports governing bodies. it is our collective responsibility and one we must do together. but for this very reason the ecr has not been able to support this oral question because it singles out one nation. it dismisses the concerns of a nation that questions the legal clarity and definition of illegal sports betting. we must work together constructively between nations, between our public and private partners and at all levels within sport from the grassroots to the very top to protect the integrity of sport.
mr president, i think as a member of this parliament for 27 years that is the first time i have ever been told that i can have so much speaking time. even though it is on a thursday afternoon i certainly enjoy it. we are all rightly proud of the achievements of our athletes from across the different sporting codes and disciplines. i was delighted to join the thousands of others from northern ireland recently to watch our national football team play in the european championships with great honour. it was also a great pleasure also to watch the olympic success of team gb this summer who were quite astonishing from my point of view. however, all too often we see the bodies purportedly governing sports and others tarnish the integrity and reputation of their sport through various forms of corruption. i wish the newly-elected president of uefa well, and i certainly hope his appointment sets football’s governing bodies back on the right direction after recent controversies. match-fixing, wherever it may be found, is a blight on our sporting communities, as has already been outlined here this afternoon. in europe and across the world and at every level, action must be taken to root it out. for the sake of the future of sport, all corruption, including match-fixing, must be tackled in the strongest and most measured way possible. i am therefore supportive of the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions. the commission should take a consistent and fair approach to all member states in relation to this. i also agree with colleagues that any review of this should call the commission to embed such principles into the funding criteria for any programme related to sport. we should also note the good work that has been done in tackling this by the sporting bodies themselves. i certainly welcome the initiatives of the rugby world such as keep rugby onside and the integrity programmes, which have been widely praised by authorities such as the uk’s gambling commission. i did not make the three minutes but i did my best to get there, but anything i have left i am sure ms tomašić can use up!
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – madam president, our economic and political relations with the african, caribbean and pacific countries have never been more important, and this report sets out three key principles for our future relations with those countries beyond 2020 and the current cotonou agreement. firstly, the sustainable development goals must be at the heart of our future partnership. secondly, any post-cotonou agreement must remain legally binding and enforceable. and thirdly, we must strengthen the involvement of civil society and improve monitoring structures. our trade policy and economic partnership agreements (epas) are central to this strategy. these regional instruments should support the overall framework agreement. however, there is a real danger here. a new framework agreement will only come once cotonou expires after 2020, and yet we are already voting on the content of those epas, now and in the coming months, and the agreements so far put before this house have been a long way away from the principles contained in this report. i therefore urge colleagues not only to support norbert neuser’s excellent report but also to follow through when considering the ratification of future epas.
madam president, i would first like to say how shameful it is that there appear to be more spectators in the gallery than there are members in the chamber. is it any wonder that the peoples of europe do not listen to you, when you cannot even be bothered to listen to yourselves? the eu-acp partnership is based upon near—colonialism. the eu taxpayer will pay eur 30 billion for the edf in 2014-2020 in order to ensure that the poorer nations are in its debt and therefore subject to the rapacious greed of big business. this is against all that your european union is supposed to stand for, and we see the results in the economic partnership agreements, in the fisheries agreements and in the common agricultural policy. if the eu really wants to help the third world, then it should enable those nations to build their own economies and ensure free trade, not just for raw materials in the age-old manner of the colonialists, but also for finished products and goods. as long as we keep pouring in aid for no good outcome, we encourage the cycle of third—world government dependency and keep the poorest the poorest. democracy, independence and freedom come only when peoples have a safe, solid, sustainable economy. we need to break the cycle of dependency, and giving corrupt governments more and more taxpayers’ money merely encourages more of the same results.
mr president, the partnership between the eu and acp countries is an important vehicle for sustainable development and i would like to thank my colleagues who truly understand this. we all know that the future belongs to young people and that is why it is important for me to highlight the participation and empowerment of children and young people when we talk about the future of acp-eu relations and sustainability. article 26 of the cotonou agreement stipulates that our cooperation must support youth, releasing their potential. i would like to see such a commitment strengthened post 2020, with ambitious new initiatives and monitoring structures. we need to share best practice and empower civil society networks like the acp young professionals network, with whom i have had the great pleasure of working.
mr president, education is a fundamental human right and essential for the exercise of all other human rights. that is why the committee on culture and education has put forward the proposal of education corridors. i am very proud that my group, the socialists and democrats, have launched the educa campaign, calling for more international funding to be focused on the education of refugee children and young people, and mobilising universities in europe and in conflict zones to act on this. a whole generation of refugee children, especially girls and young women, face a bleak future without education. this is also important for all the welcoming countries who will benefit from the economic contribution of educated newcomers. it is a moral humanitarian duty for the european union, as one of the main welcoming regions and a key player in the international scene, to guarantee that these young people have the opportunity for a brighter future. education initiatives, including informal education, must support refugee children’s mental health after they have gone through traumatic experiences. it is vital for present and future conflict resolution and peace-building in the region.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the commission may well promote itself as a champion in the field of enhancing nutrition and food security. however, it is clear that tens of millions of taxpayers’ money will again be misused and channelled to the wrong projects with no tracking or real control whatsoever. besides that, there is the danger that the eu is influencing the political agenda in the governments concerned, causing more instability. however, there is another point that i would like to make. on the one hand, the eu promotes itself as a champion of development, providing poor countries with aid and assistance to deal with food security and food shortages. but, on the other hand, the eu is undermining food security in many parts of the world. taxpayers in the eu are forced to bear the cost of eu fisheries agreements, which are essentially a tool to allow a few big fishing companies to plunder the waters of poor african coastal nations. people of poor coastal communities rely on fish as an affordable source of protein. fish is their main source of food and they need it to survive, but we are stealing it from them. the plundering of these fish stocks has led to serious protein deficiencies within these communities. it is threatening food security and causing malnutrition. we can only hope that when we leave the eu, which we will do shortly, we can then promote true food security and sustainability.
mr president, ending hunger by 2030 is not about increasing production of commodities for global markets; rather we need to put nutrition, health and food security at the core of agricultural policy. we need a fundamental shift towards agro-ecology so that countries can feed themselves with a diversity of crops while addressing climate and poverty challenges. support to family farmers and smallholders is key. the eurolat assembly, of which i am a member, is debating a resolution on food security, recommending measures such as food reserves which governments can use to mitigate short term price fluctuations. in the eu, the commission has a role in reducing volatility by ensuring that robust position limits are put in place to curb food speculation, as citizens rightly expect from the mifid 2 agreement. the right to food also depends on access to land, yet inconsistencies in eu sectoral policies are inhibiting this. current policies towards biofuels and many liberalising trade and investment agreements are jeopardising food security, contributing directly or indirectly to land grabbing.
mr president, i would like to focus specifically on women and girls, who suffer more nutritional deficiencies than men for reasons such as women’s reproductive biology, low social status, poverty and lack of education. although malnutrition’s effects on this group have been recognised for decades, there has been little measurable progress in addressing the specific nutritional problems of women and adolescent girls. addressing women’s malnutrition has a range of positive effects because healthy women can fulfil their multiple roles more effectively, thereby helping to advance their country’s socio-economic development. secondly, more consideration should be given to the power of civil society and people—to—people initiatives in making real differences in their communities, such as the world vision gicumbi child nutrition centre that i recently visited in rwanda. finally, i want to emphasise the role that education and intercultural dialogue plays as a key tool in development, emphasising and transforming mindsets and addressing key causes of under—nutrition. fighting against malnutrition requires access to education.
author. – mr president, i am speaking on behalf of bernd lange, who cannot be here this evening. illegal logging and trade in illegal timber has a devastating impact on the world’s forests, threatening the survival of various wildlife species and contributing to climate change. regrettably, we have not managed to reverse global deforestation, even though illegal timber imports to the eu have declined. this signals the urgent need to step up our efforts. the committee on international trade is a lead committee for flegt, the voluntary partnership agreements that are signed under the flegt regulation between the eu and timber-producing countries, and that should address the supply side of the problem. i note with satisfaction that indonesia will be the first country to start issuing flegt licenses this autumn, and the whole process has contributed to strengthened forest governance through an inclusive multi-stakeholder approach. today, over 90% of indonesia’s timber exports are from independently—audited factories and forests, compared to just 20% in 2002. it is an important milestone, especially as one third by value of the eu’s tropical timber imports come from indonesia. i would like to hear from the commission how they are going to step up and accelerate the process in other voluntary partnership agreement countries (vpas). could the commission indicate which vpa countries, in addition to indonesia, are closest to signing flegt licenses, and – as we have just heard, this is especially relevant in light of the court of auditors recommendation – notably that resources should be allocated to where they are likely to have the greatest impact in tackling illegal logging and related trade? in cases where implementation of the vpa requirements appears less feasible, would the commission agree to propose measures supporting forest governance without necessarily signing a vpa?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, illegal logging is symptomatic of wider governance problems, such as weak and unclear laws, corruption, big business behaving badly and poor local people with few incentives to behave well – all brought about by scientific theories which have been preached with the certainty of religious fervour. this, with the assertion that the rule of law means the same everywhere, is not a pretty picture, and it applies to much in the developing world – especially in the issue of industrial scale illegal logging and deforestation, which is threatening the survival of some of the world’s most endangered animal species. there is a stupid response to rush to criminalise in ways which further incentivise bad behaviour, based on questionable science, and to reinforce this with due diligence bureaucracy which adds to costs, thus further incentivising the very activity that we want to stop. if you raise the price of something, you encourage new market entrants, including illegal ones. what is needed is to ask the commission whether it has done a robust behavioural economic analysis of the incentive system in the global logging market. this is, of course, not the kind of question asked by or of the european institutions. instead, we have the usual cliché buzzwords: ‘political momentum’, ‘coherence’, ‘synergies’, ‘climate’, ‘mitigation’. thank goodness my country is leaving.
mr president, theresa may has outlined her great repeal bill, but nothing will happen for six months until article 50 is triggered in march next year. two years of negotiations will then follow to arrive at the elusive deal supposedly required before the uk can leave the eu, and we won’t actually leave until april 2019. by then, we will have had another two-and-a-half years of uncontrolled eu immigration and not a single eu law will have been repealed. there is a much simpler solution. forget article 50. repeal the european communities act and return supremacy to our parliament. introduce emergency legislation on immigration and border controls. offer the eu a choice: continued mutual tariff-free access to the single market, or trade under wto terms. the choice is theirs. existing eu directives would continue to apply until amended or repealed by parliament. that is the way to make brexit mean brexit now.
mr president, since october 2015 nnamdi kanu, a british-nigerian citizen and leader of the indigenous people of biafra, has been unlawfully imprisoned by nigeria’s department of state services, despite the fact that all criminal charges against him were dropped and a court order has been issued for him to be released on bail. chapter 4, section 39, of the nigerian constitution says that ‘every person shall be entitled to freedom of expression, including freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart ideas and information without interference’. i therefore call upon the president of nigeria, muhammadu buhari, to uphold his country’s constitution and to ensure nnamdi kanu’s immediate and safe release, as well as that of his co-defendants, benjamin madubugwu and david nwauwisiare. the nigerian government must guarantee the freedom of expression of all nigerian citizens, including their right to protest without intimidation, and must end the violence towards those who identify as biafran. i call, too, on my colleagues here in the european parliament to do much more to promote human rights in nigeria.
mr president, yesterday the british prime minister announced that the negotiations for the uk to leave the eu would start at the end of march 2017. the lack of any commitment to the importance of the eu single market was shocking. the british government is about to start negotiations and it cannot commit to making the eu single market a key factor in any negotiations. the single market is pivotal to the uk’s current market access for goods and services. throw that away and you put british jobs and the uk economy at risk. only today, we saw the fall in the value of the pound. hundreds of thousands of british jobs rely on our accessing the eu single market. why is it important? it is important because the single market allows us to create one set of rules that cover 20 different countries, covering 500 million citizens, allowing certainty for business and security and quality for consumers. it is no coincidence that here in this parliament, since the single market – or internal market – committee was created in 2004, it has had only had uk chairs in phillip whitehead, arlene mccarthy, malcolm harbour and currently vicky ford. the eu single market matters to the uk and the uk should recognise this. the uk government should recognise this before it irrevocably damages the british economy and destroys british jobs.
mr president, king richard iii first introduced a form of legal aid into english courts in about 1485. now richard is accused of many crimes, but one thing he never did, to my knowledge anyway, was to surrender an english subject to a foreign jurisdiction purely on the basis of unsubstantiated accusations on a sheet of paper. it took conservative and labour governments to remove the requirement for evidence in extradition cases – as now enshrined in the infamous european arrest warrant. there is nothing that the european union can teach the english legal system about anything else, including legal aid, but at least the british government has chosen to opt out of this directive. nevertheless, it is good to see that other eu member states are being required to catch up and to provide legal assistance to those accused in criminal proceedings, and to victims of european arrest warrants. but this must include assistance to those in all receiving member states. normally i would vote against eu law, but in this case i am inclined to abstain. it does not affect the uk, but it is good and it is only right and proper that other member states should go to the trouble and expense of providing legal assistance to those who cannot afford it themselves. when britain leaves the european union, then we must repeal the european arrest warrant and never again extradite someone unless a british court has first considered the evidence against them and come to the conclusion that there is a proper case to answer.
mr president, today we see yet another example of the madness of freedom of movement and the associated european union immigration system – a system that totally fails to discriminate between a european union citizen with an unblemished record and one who has already been a menace in his or her own country. legal aid is a justifiable financial mechanism to support those of insufficient means to enable them to achieve justice through a national legal and court system. it becomes completely open to abuse when the borderless european union actually encourages the free movement of criminals and crimes. in the uk alone, british courts are dealing with over 700 notifications involving european union migrants each week – that is an increase of more than 40% over the past five years – and 12% of the united kingdom prison population are now foreign nationals. i will not even try to estimate or get the figures for those on bail. many of these individuals already have criminal records and, once in court, they milk the system. it is not just the united kingdom system they are milking, it is every court system because of the bizarre situation we are in. in the united kingdom, the cost of translation services alone is now a significant burden for united kingdom courts. no one is denying anyone justice. justice should mean justice, but national justice should come first and united kingdom citizens’ eligibility and entitlement to legal aid should not be sacrificed to a european union dictate.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the commission for the excellent work they have done on this report. the anti-torture regulation is an excellent example of the value-based trade on which trade policy should be focused. it demonstrates that values can have, in the right circumstances, priority over business and over profits, and therefore it is to be warmly welcomed. this is also a great success for parliament, as most of our recommendations have been taken on board. measures agreed which have already been mentioned include the eu transit ban for torture and capital-punishment goods, which will make sure that, in the future, the eu in no way contributes to the trade in these goods thus inadvertently participating in violations of human rights and international law. we now have a system in place which should guarantee that there are no loopholes in this law but, as daniel caspary has rightly said, what is now important is the full commitment of all the member states to continued monitoring of the situation. and, while i welcome the regulation, it is worth pausing in a debate like this to remind ourselves that, incredibly in the modern world, torture is actually still on the increase and the use of the death penalty went up in the last three years for which have statistics. so this is a good step in the right direction, a good victory for parliament and a good decision by the european union to strengthen the 2005 regulation, but let us not be complacent about the situation we face in the current world.
madam president, our trade policy can and should be a crucial tool to promote human rights, and this is what this regulation is all about. the eu rightly rejects the use of torture and the death penalty, and the way that we trade must reflect these fundamental values. this legislation will ensure that no eu business can profit from torture and that no company trading for goods for execution or torture can access the eu market. effective enforcement will be absolutely crucial. but it is worth reminding ourselves that, because this legislation is from the eu – the biggest trading bloc in the world – it can have a real impact in setting global standards in a way that no country could ever achieve unilaterally. i support this legislation and i very much hope that, despite brexit in my own country, both the uk and the rest of the eu will continue to strive together for a strong, value-based trade policy worldwide.
in writing. – we in ukip are against this recommendation because we oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the eu commission. they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned about the potential impact of this on our energy policy. there is a need to find cost-effective means of renewable energy. however, artificial targets caused by an overly alarmist point of view lead to renewables being introduced before the technology is available to ensure that they are economically sustainable. a better approach would be a research-based one, solving the storage problem first before introducing forms of energy production which are, for example, intermittent.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are against this recommendation because we oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission. they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ like most members of the european parliament, i voted today in support of ratifying the paris agreement on climate change, probably the most important vote i have cast as an mep. now we have the plan, and now we must act. the energy, industry and transport sectors must act to reduce emissions – and so must the land-use sector. agriculture has significant potential to reduce emissions, through agro-forestry for example. forestry also has a major role to play as trees and timber soak up carbon, substituting for carbon-intensive steel, concrete and plastic. so let us design a framework of rules that incentivise farmers and the construction industry, working to the motto that ‘man’s best friend is the tree’.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i am willing to support this vote, albeit very cautiously. the paris agreement will pursue emissions reductions through a ‘burden—sharing’ agreement between eu countries. however, the detail of this arrangement has yet to be finalised. there is surely a concern that some eu regions may have to take on a disproportionate burden in relation to these targets. in this sense, while we can debate and discuss and ultimately agree on these far-reaching international agreements, we must remember that the solutions affect ordinary people; farmers, consumers, households. i would therefore urge caution that, when ratifying this agreement, national authorities do not take these obligations lightly. in my own constituency, northern ireland, our most recent programme for government aims to reduce emissions by 35% on 1990 levels by 2025. the most recent report by the cross-department working group on climate change confirmed that we are there or thereabouts in meeting this goal. so when voting today we should remember the work that is already underway at local level – and remain conscious of the burdens and sacrifices that have to be made by our citizens in the interests of these goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ratification of the paris agreement, which provides momentum for its implementation. climate change is the greatest threat facing us today, and we in wales need to do all we can to protect the planet and ensure the well-being of future generations. that is why i have called on the national assembly to also ratify the agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i am against this recommendation because i oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission. they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ i am delighted that we have ratified the paris climate agreement. this is essential for the future of our planet and is a crucial step in the direction of a low—carbon future. labour meps will continue to work hard in this field, as much more work must follow this agreement.
in writing. – we in ukip are against this recommendation because we oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission. they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ i was proud to vote, along with other labour meps, in favour of the agreement today. it’s vital that we protect our planet for the next generation and seize the opportunities of the low—carbon revolution.
in writing. ‒ today we are welcoming good news. the paris agreement on climate change from december last year is a great achievement, in an otherwise challenging year for the eu and the united nations, and its ratification proves that europeans can work together and reach compromises that work for all citizens. i voted for the ratification of the agreement and i wholeheartedly support it. however, now the real hard work begins! in this parliament, as well as in member state parliaments, we must create and implement the policies that ensure we meet the targets set out in paris. we must ensure we create a ‘just transition’ that does not punish working people and communities, but instead offers new, high-quality jobs for our constituencies and sustainable growth for our economies. tackling climate change must be turned into an opportunity not just a challenge.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are against this recommendation because we oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission. they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. - i personally have a problem with the way the convention was ratified. i am convinced that national parliaments should not avoid these important agreements.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are against this recommendation because we oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission. they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not recognise the eu’s competence in this area.
in writing. ‒ today, along with colleagues in the european parliament, i voted to give consent to the ratification of the paris climate agreement in the european parliament. although most member states still have to ratify the paris agreement, today’s vote from the european union now ensures a swift start for cop21.
in writing. ‒ today, along with colleagues in parliament, i voted to give consent to the ratification of the paris climate agreement in the european parliament. although most member states still have to ratify the paris agreement, today’s vote from the european union now ensures a swift start for cop21.
in writing. ‒ climate change is the most significant challenge facing humanity as a whole at present. its impacts are already being felt around the globe, fuelling conflict, the movement of peoples, and destruction of our ecosystems. my own temperate constituency of north-west england suffered terrible floods last year, partly brought about by a sub-tropical storm. eu member states must move as quickly as possible to ratify and implement the cop21 paris agreement, so that the eu can play a leading role in the global effort to combat climate change.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 1 651 834 to greece for the earthquake that hit in 2015. the event was a 6.1 on the richter scale in which two people lost their lives and 8 people were injured. the greek government estimated the total damage to be over eur 66 million. while in principle ukip opposes the eu spending british taxpayers’ money, as this was for disaster relief and there was loss of life, we will not oppose its use in this case.
in writing. – following the earthquake that affected the ionian islands in november 2015, on 5 february 2016 greece submitted an application to mobilise the european union solidarity fund. as there are appropriations still available in the european solidarity fund for 2016, the proposal is to provide the amount of eur 1 651 834 to greece, in commitment and payment appropriations. the vote took place on 28 september in the budg committee, and adopted with an overwhelming majority +32 in favour, one abstention and one vote against.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that this fund is necessary. eu member states contribute to a fund from which they can then reclaim money in the event of a natural disaster. however, ultimately there will be no real net benefit in terms of the levels of administration involved. given that the fund exists, however, i see no reason to doubt that this is a worthwhile cause and i have no objection to the proposal. i therefore felt, overall, that it was appropriate to abstain.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 1 651 834 to greece for the earthquake that hit in 2015. the event was 6.1 on the richter scale in which two people lost their lives and 8 people injured. the greek government estimated the total damage to be over eur 66 million. while in principle ukip opposes the eu spending british taxpayer’s money, as this was for disaster relief and there was loss of life, we will not oppose its use in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that affected the ionian islands in november 2015. the principle of solidarity, helping each other out, has long been an important value in wales. the european union has emergency funding to help in crises such as this. the uk government does not make use of this support, which is why wales has missed out in the past.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 1 651 834 to greece for the earthquake that hit in 2015. the event was a 6.1 on the richter scale in which two people lost their lives and 8 people injured. the greek government estimated the total damage to be over eur 66 million. while in principle ukip opposes the eu spending british taxpayer’s money, as this was for disaster relief and there was loss of life, we will not oppose its use in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund, as i believe we should be providing assistance to greece following the earthquake that affected the ionian islands in november 2015.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 1 651 834 to greece for the earthquake that hit in 2015. the event was 6.1 on the richter scale in which two people lost their lives and 8 people injured. the greek government estimated the total damage to be over eur 66 million. while in principle ukip opposes the eu spending british taxpayer’s money, as this was for disaster relief and there was loss of life, we will not oppose its use in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance for the reintegration into the labour market of workers who have been made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 1 651 834 to greece for the earthquake that hit in 2015. the event was 6.1 on the richter scale in which two people lost their lives and 8 people injured. the greek government estimated the total damage to be over eur 66 million. while in principle ukip opposes the eu spending british taxpayer’s money, as this was for disaster relief and there was loss of life, we will not oppose its use in this case.
in writing. ‒ unlike the so-called globalisation fund, which i often doubt, i have to agree with this proposal unequivocally, because i am convinced that the solidarity fund really helps the citizens of the eu countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 1 651 834 to greece for the earthquake that hit in 2015. the event was 6.1 on the richter scale in which two people lost their lives and 8 people injured. the greek government estimated the total damage to be over eur 66 million. while in principle ukip opposes the eu spending british taxpayer’s money, as this was for disaster relief and there was loss of life, we will not oppose its use in this case.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this because i believe aid should be decided on by nation states.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in order to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that affected the ionian islands in november 2015. this covers the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for an amount of eur 1 651 834, this will be financed through the partial use of the eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations already entered into the 2016 budget, an amending budget is therefore not required.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund is meant to assist member states in recovering from natural disasters. as the name suggests, it is another expression of the eu value of social solidarity. i joined fellow labour meps to press the uk tory government to apply for solidarity funds when the north of the uk, and particularly my own constituency of the north west of england, were hit by devastating floods in late 2015. the government eventually agreed to request the funds and filed a partial application, but shamefully, it has since failed to complete that application. in the meantime, greece has filed an application which has been approved for support after an earthquake. it is sad to see that while the tories had the opportunity to receive more funds to support communities in the north west, they have chosen not to pursue this.
in writing. – ukip voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 5 364 000 (60% match funding) for 1 441 finnish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayers’ money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. – this egf application materialised when nokia initially moved production lines to the far east, then closed down some more specialised production areas too and sold the mobile phone operation to microsoft in 2013. the situation has replicated itself this time around when microsoft have done the same thing. like all egf applications, there are good and bad elements to this. however, the decision comes down to the same question each time: whether to deny support for redundant workers over trying to make a larger political statement to the eu and to the companies who are relocating or restructuring. we supported this application in budg and also in empl.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of finland, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 5 364 000 (60% match funding) for 1441 finnish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayer’s money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures, and so i voted in favour of this application. i regret that the uk government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 5 364 000 (60% match funding) for 1441 finnish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayer’s money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the use of this fund, as it provides crucial support to workers who need to retrain and reskill following the changes in world trade patterns and their impact upon work.
in writing. – ukip voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 5 364 000 (60% match funding) for 1441 finnish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayer’s money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns, due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 5 364 000 (60% match funding) for 1441 finnish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayer’s money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, i am not convinced that we should continue to use the globalisation fund only for the old member countries. today we have applications from sweden and finland and from ericsson and microsoft, so i think everyone will make their own picture.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 5 364 000 (60% match funding) for 1441 finnish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayer’s money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because we do not receive this fund from the eu.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following an application from finland. this was set up in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an expression of the eu’s core value of social solidarity. far from being just a neo-liberal club, the eu protects communities from the harsher impacts of globalisation, and provides social support for communities affected by job losses. the uk government could have made much more use of this fund regarding job losses in the steel industry, for example.
in writing. – ukip voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 3 957 918 (60% match funding) for 918 swedish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayers’ money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. – a total of 1 556 workers made redundant, all working for ericsson in sweden and due to the partial or entire closure of wireless telecom hardware production lines at various ericsson sites. as a matter of interest, ericsson has doubled its recruitment worldwide, yet it has been gradually cutting staff in sweden (from 21 178 in 2005 to 17 858 in 2014). the swedish company sold its entire mobile phone development and production line to competitor sony in february 2012, which has been a partial reason for job losses. since this application, rumour has it that ericsson will announce further lay-off plans, probably about 3 000 in europe (approximately 17 000 left in sweden). swedish trade unions have no confirmation of this yet. we supported this application in the committee on budgets (budg) and also in the committee on employment and social affairs (empl).
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of sweden, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 3 957 918 (60% match funding) for 918 swedish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayer’s money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures, and so i voted in favour of this application. i regret that the uk government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 3 957 918 (60% match funding) for 918 swedish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayers’ money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: redundancies in telecom hardware production in sweden, which relates to 1 556 workers made redundant in ericsson (telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson). these redundancies are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns.
in writing. – ukip voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 3 957 918 (60% match funding) for 918 swedish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayer’s money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns, due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 3 957 918 (60% match funding) for 918 swedish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayer’s money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary (single vote) report. this vote was to approve giving eur 3 957 918 (60% match funding) for 918 swedish workers who have been made redundant. this is nothing more than eu dole money. ukip opposes british taxpayer’s money being used to offset poor economic decisions in other countries and by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as the uk does not receive this funding.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: redundancies in telecom hardware production in sweden which relates to 1556 workers made redundant in ericsson (telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson). these redundancies are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ this is an instrument which successive uk governments either chose not to use, but which could have in the past supported british communities. it is an important expression of common european solidarity. far from the false euro-sceptic myth that ‘the eu pays to close factories’, these funds help workers retrain and stops communities from being torn apart.
in writing. – the greek authorities are proposing to prosecute giorgos grammatikakis, in conjunction with others, for failing to comply with certain legal obligations. the proposed proceedings concern a discussion held on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance policy – in addition to the compulsory insurance policy – for all employees of the university of crete and allegedly unlawful payments being made in successive instalments over the period 2000-2002. a previous proceeding on the same case covered the period from 2000 onwards and resulted in the acquittal of all the accused. ukip would vote to waive the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, as requested by giorgos grammatikakis himself in order to put an end to this long judicial process.
in writing. ‒ this vote is not a roll-call vote, and therefore in the interests of democracy and transparency i would like to confirm that i voted in favour of this resolution. i note that mr grammatikakis also is content with this decision.
in writing. ‒ the greek authorities are proposing to prosecute giorgos grammatikakis, in conjunction with others, for failing to comply with certain legal obligations. the proposed proceedings concern a discussion held on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance policy – in addition to the compulsory insurance policy – for all employees of the university of crete and allegedly unlawful payments being made in successive instalments over the period 2000-2002. a previous proceeding on the same case covered the period from 2000 onwards and resulted in the acquittal of all the accused. ukip would vote to waive the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, as requested by giorgos grammatikakis himself, in order to put an end to this long judicial process.
in writing. ‒ the greek authorities are proposing to prosecute giorgos grammatikakis, in conjunction with others, for failing to comply with certain legal obligations. the proposed proceedings concern a discussion held on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance policy – in addition to the compulsory insurance policy – for all employees of the university of crete and allegedly unlawful payments being made in successive instalments over the period 2000-2002. a previous proceeding on the same case covered the period from 2000 onwards and resulted in the acquittal of all the accused. ukip would vote to waive the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, as requested by giorgos grammatikakis himself, in order to put an end to this long judicial process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request as i support the reasons of the proposal to waive the immunity.
in writing. – the greek authorities are proposing to prosecute giorgos grammatikakis, in conjunction with others, for failing to comply with certain legal obligations. the proposed proceedings concern a discussion held on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance policy – in addition to the compulsory insurance policy – for all employees of the university of crete and allegedly unlawful payments being made in successive instalments over the period 2000-2002. a previous proceeding on the same case covered the period from 2000 onwards and resulted in the acquittal of all the accused. ukip would vote to waive the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, as requested by giorgos grammatikakis himself, in order to put an end to this long judicial process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons of the proposal to waive the immunity.
in writing. ‒ the greek authorities are proposing to prosecute giorgos grammatikakis, in conjunction with others, for failing to comply with certain legal obligations. the proposed proceedings concern a discussion held on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance policy – in addition to the compulsory insurance policy – for all employees of the university of crete and allegedly unlawful payments being made in successive instalments over the period 2000-2002. a previous proceeding on the same case covered the period from 2000 onwards and resulted in the acquittal of all the accused. ukip would vote to waive the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, as requested by giorgos grammatikakis himself, in order to put an end to this long judicial process.
in writing. ‒ the greek authorities are proposing to prosecute giorgos grammatikakis, in conjunction with others, for failing to comply with certain legal obligations. the proposed proceedings concern a discussion held on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance policy – in addition to the compulsory insurance policy – for all employees of the university of crete and allegedly unlawful payments being made in successive instalments over the period 2000-2002. a previous proceeding on the same case covered the period from 2000 onwards and resulted in the acquittal of all the accused. ukip would vote to waive the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, as requested by giorgos grammatikakis himself, in order to put an end to this long judicial process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of proposal as i do not believe it is right for him to have his immunity in this matter.
madam president, i have already commented on this material under the catch the eye procedure, which i support. i would now like to add, in explaining the vote, that i also agree with the final form of the directive. in my view, it is very right that the specific form of free legal aid is left to the decision of the specific country. this means, for example, who will be able to provide this form of free legal aid in which country. let me just take one more little twig. in order for this legal provision to work in practice, it is very important that the european commission communicates and engages in dialogue with the member states on how much money each member state will release to implement this directive. because one thing is the implementation of free legal aid and the other thing is the real money for which free legal aid can be provided. otherwise, it will remain an empty directive which will not actually improve the situation of the citizens of the european union.
madam president, extradition has been around for centuries – millennia even. ramesses ii of egypt signed the first extradition treaty all the way back in 1259 bc. i believe that extradition treaties work. i have concerns, though, about the european arrest warrant, which had led to certain miscarriages of justice in the united kingdom. however, i am very much in favour of legal aid because money should never be a barrier to justice for anyone. i am also concerned, though, that these are matters for member states to decide, in terms of who should and should not be granted legal aid. so, with these conflicting concerns and because i feel that there should always be proper evidence before any extradition is granted, i felt it appropriate in this case to abstain.
in writing. – ukip meps have abstained on this legislative report. ukip supports the right for access to legal aid for suspects and accused persons. however, as the uk government has chosen to opt out of this directive, we do feel the need to cast opinion on legislation that does not affect the uk.
in writing. – my gue/ngl colleague dennis de jong is the rapporteur of this file and it sought to enhance the provision of legal aid to citizens across the eu. the file sought to create a base standard for the provision of legal aid and the quality of the legal assistance provided. the file also sought to ensure that in the case of european arrest warrants, legal aid is accessed from the issuing member state. whilst dennis wanted the report to go further and include legal aid provisions for persons before liberty is suspended, the council shot that down. however, the final report is still positive and a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have abstained on this legislative report. ukip supports the right to access to legal aid for suspects and accused persons. however, as the uk government has chosen to opt out of this directive, we do not feel the need to cast opinion on legislation that does not affect the uk.
in writing. ‒ we can all agree that the right to a fair, independent and impartial trial is the cornerstone of an effective judicial system and just society. those charged with offences have the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty and this is essential to ensuring that the public have confidence in our courts and democratic processes as a whole. in this sense, i support the premise that those detained under a european arrest warrant should have an entitlement to legal representation, and that this eligibility should be subject to the same tests applied at a national level for the same offence. in northern ireland, we have increasingly seen legal aid used under the auspices of human rights law by those liable for terrorist atrocities in an effort to evade the rulings of national courts in the united kingdom. only last week the echr rejected appeals by two republican terrorists liable for the omagh bombing in 1998 which killed 28 people. whilst ensuring free and fair access to legal representation is vital, provision must also be centred toward addressing the needs of innocent victims and ensuring that the balance of protections do not tip toward the perpetrator.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this legislative report. ukip supports the right for access to legal aid for suspects and accused persons. however, as the uk government has chosen to opt out of this directive, i do not feel the need to cast an opinion on legislation that does not affect the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive on legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. this is one of a set of proposals intended to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings.
in writing. – ukip meps have abstained on this legislative report. ukip supports the right to access to legal aid for suspects and accused persons. however, as the uk government has chosen to opt out of this directive, we do not feel the need to cast opinion on legislation that does not affect the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which will assist in increasing member states’ confidence in each other’s legal systems and ensure that in countries where virtually no legal aid exists, new and improved systems can be established. once fully implemented by member states, the legal aid directive should give an important boost to social advocacy by strengthening the right to access to a lawyer for those who do not have sufficient financial means. in addition, it ensures quick and effective legal representation from the start of proceedings. the uk has opted out of the proposal and will not be affected by this legislation.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have abstained on this legislative report. ukip supports the right to access to legal aid for suspects and accused persons. however, as the uk government has chosen to opt out of this directive, we do not feel the need to cast opinion on legislation that does not affect the uk.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have abstained on this legislative report. ukip supports the right to access to legal aid for suspects and accused persons. however, as the uk government has chosen to opt out of this directive, we do not feel the need to cast opinion on legislation that does not affect the uk.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this because the uk government has opted out of this scheme.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted for the draft directive on legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. this is one of a set of proposals intended to further strengthen procedural rights for citizens in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report, which will assist in increasing member state’s confidence in each other’s legal systems and ensure that in countries where virtually no legal aid exists, new and improved systems can be established. once fully implemented by member states, the legal aid directive should give an important boost to social advocacy by strengthening the right to access a lawyer for those who do not have sufficient financial means. in addition, ensuring quick and effective legal representation from the start of proceedings. the uk has opted out of the proposal and will not be affected by this legislation.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report, which will assist in increasing member state’s confidence in each other’s legal systems and ensure that in countries where virtually no legal aid exists, new and improved systems can be established. once fully implemented by member states, the legal aid directive should give an important boost to social advocacy by strengthening the right to access a lawyer for those who do not have sufficient financial means and will hopefully benefit women who often face barriers to accessing legal aid. in addition, this will ensure quick and effective legal representation from the start of proceedings. the uk has opted out of the proposal and will not be affected by this legislation.
madam president, i voted in favour of this amendment to the rules. it seems logical to me that at a time when the european union and its institutions are leading the fight against the death penalty in the world and against the inhuman treatment of human beings, it is logical that we not only stop at those political declarations and say criticism of countries that use the death penalty in abundance, but that we also take decisions - and today's decision is such - that are supposed to lead to really reducing the death penalty in the world, to limit the treatment of people that is in the form of torture. the prohibition of certain substances which can be used for capital punishment, certain goods and the possible restriction of trade in these goods is, in my view, a perfectly logical consequence of our policy of combating the death penalty. that is why i have supported this regulation and i consider it to be the right decision.
madam president, on the issue of capital punishment, i think my views are fairly well known. i am no fan of the death penalty in itself. at the same time, i believe it is the sovereign right of countries across the world to make their own decisions on that subject. so i do not believe it is appropriate for us to impose a particular worldview upon those nations. i do have some concerns about unintended consequences in that we could end up with a situation where methods used end up being more painful rather than less. if this report were about capital punishment alone, i might very well have voted against this report; but it is not. this report is also about torture and i recognise the very difficulties which the report and this legislation is trying to prevent and to protect against. therefore overall i felt it was appropriate for me to abstain.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. ukip objects to the eu dictating our terms of trade, so we would have been minded to vote against, however due to the sensitive nature of the report we did not oppose. there are practical problems in defining ‘items of torture’. our concern in the future is that conventional and innocuous items could be added the list of restricted goods and may affect legitimate trade. ukip of course condemns any form of torture.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. ukip objects to the eu dictating our terms of trade, so we would have been minded to vote against, however due to the sensitive nature of the report we did not oppose. there are practical problems in defining ‘items of torture’. our concern in the future is that conventional and innocuous items could be added the list of restricted goods and may affect legitimate trade. ukip, of course, condemns any form of torture.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important, however this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en-block by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report concerning trade in goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture, or other cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment. there are currently many loopholes in international trade export controls which allow the movement of these goods. amnesty international and other ngos have been very supportive of this report, and it is a major step forward in tackling the problem. it is important to my constituents in wales that we try protect the human rights of all people.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. ukip objects to the eu dictating our terms of trade, so we would have been minded to vote against, however due to the sensitive nature of the report we did not oppose. there are practical problems in defining ‘items of torture’. our concern in the future is that conventional and innocuous items could be added the list of restricted goods and may affect legitimate trade. ukip, of course, condemns any form of torture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it importantly represents a significant update of the rules which will stop the export, transit, marketing and promotion of goods that can be used for torture or inhumane treatment.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. ukip objects to the eu dictating our terms of trade, so we would have been minded to vote against, however due to the sensitive nature of the report we did not oppose. there are practical problems in defining ‘items of torture’. our concern in the future is that conventional and innocuous items could be added the list of restricted goods and may affect legitimate trade. ukip, of course, condemns any form of torture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, as the deal represents a significant update of the rules which will stop the export, transit, marketing and promotion of goods that can be used for torture or inhumane treatment.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. ukip objects to the eu dictating our terms of trade, so we would have been minded to vote against, however due to the sensitive nature of the report we did not oppose. there are practical problems in defining ‘items of torture’. our concern in the future is that conventional and innocuous items could be added the list of restricted goods and may affect legitimate trade. ukip, of course, condemns any form of torture.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this legislative, consent procedure (single vote) report. ukip objects to the eu dictating our terms of trade, so we would have been minded to vote against, however due to the sensitive nature of the report we did not oppose. there are practical problems in defining ‘items of torture’. our concern in the future is that conventional and innocuous items could be added the list of restricted goods and may affect legitimate trade. ukip, of course, condemns any form of torture.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this as i do not believe the eu should control what nation-states should and should not trade.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted in favour of the report on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other treatment or punishment. the new rules outlined in the report represent an update of the eu’s 2005 anti-torture regulation and list goods and substances that are either banned for export, such as electric chairs, or need export clearance at eu borders.
in writing. ‒ with my eplp colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because there will be an updated ‘urgency procedure’ which would allow the prevention of the export of goods listed in the annexes which present a ‘clear and immediate’ risk that they will be used for torture. there will also be an outright ban on displaying and selling torture goods at trade fairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it represents a significant update of the rules which will stop export, transit, marketing and promotion of goods that can be used for torture or inhumane treatment. this is a key step in the promotion of peace and human rights and the prevention of violence, and part of the central role that the eu plays on the international scene. this report also allies with the work of the pga (parliamentarians for global action) of whom i am a member.
in writing. – ukip mep’s have voted against this legislative report. ukip does not support the right for the eu to make agreements with third countries. ukip also does not recognise the mandate of europol and therefore have also voted against this report on the basis that it increases its legitimacy and influence.
in writing. – on the europol china agreement on strategic cooperation, i voted against. we consistently vote against these files given the bloated remit and unaccountable nature of europol and the human rights standards of the third country in question. strategic intelligence cooperation with a country with as poor a human rights standard as china should be opposed. i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned about the power of europol, and believe that the uk should make our own decisions on security and policing matters, and therefore on principle would vote against this proposed agreement. i am also unconvinced that certain human rights issues in china are sufficiently addressed with regard to this co-operation, and would like to see any such co-ordinated ventures properly debated in westminster.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip does not support the right for the eu to make agreements with third countries. ukip also does not recognise the mandate of europol and therefore has also voted against this report on the basis that it increases its legitimacy and influence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this legislative report. ukip does not support the right for the eu to make agreements with third countries. ukip also does not recognise the mandate of europol and therefore i voted against this report on the basis that it increases its legitimacy and influence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. this strategic cooperation agreement with china would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip does not support the right for the eu to make agreements with third countries. ukip also does not recognise the mandate of europol and therefore has also voted against this report on the basis that it increases its legitimacy and influence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. this strategic cooperation agreement with china would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement co-operation.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip does not support the right for the eu to make agreements with third countries. ukip also does not recognise the mandate of europol and therefore has also voted against this report on the basis that it increases its legitimacy and influence.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip does not support the right for the eu to make agreements with third countries. ukip also does not recognise the mandate of europol and therefore has also voted against this report on the basis that it increases its legitimacy and influence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not recognise the eus competency in this area.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted for the agreement on strategic cooperation between europol and china. this agreement is an important step towards reinforcing the fight against organised crime and enhancing international law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. ‒ this strategic cooperation agreement with china would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement co-operation. according to europol, china is increasingly relevant as a source, destination and transit country in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitated illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, organ harvesting, drug-related crimes, euro-counterfeiting, intellectual property rights infringements, sport corruption, as well as cybercrime and money laundering related activities. furthermore, china is home to several high-impact organised criminal groups. this is the kind of international cooperation that is needed in a globalised world in order to keep citizens safe. europol is an important part of the eu’s infrastructure that helps keep british citizens safe and protected from crime. the uk government urgently needs to answer questions about what it wants the relationship with europol to be going forwards.
madam president, 80% of the world’s least developed countries are acp nations. trade is not the only solution, but is an essential part of the solution, for trade creates jobs; trade generates wealth which allows those countries to import, trade lifts people out of poverty, trade motivates entrepreneurs and trade leads to development. what we should be doing is breaking down tariffs and breaking down other barriers to trade. that is why i believe that this report is spectacularly missing the point, because it mentions trade really very little – really only at the end of the report. and it mentions it in the context of politicising that very trade. i believe that this report is completely missing the point of what we need to be doing.
in writing. – ukip voted against the non-legislative report. the eu wants to expand its influence over the less economically developed countries of the african, the caribbean and the pacific states group (acp) with the use of the eur 30 billion of the european development fund (edf), which is outside of the eu budget. the acp institutions see low level attendance and produce few results. the eu finances 50% of the costs the acp secretariat. ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the non-legislative report. the eu wants to expand its influence over the less economically developed countries of the african, the caribbean and the pacific states group (acp) with the use of the eur 30 billion of the european development fund (edf), which is outside of the eu budget. the acp institutions see low-level attendance and produce few results. the eu finances 50% of the costs of the acp secretariat. ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
in writing. ‒ mr president, 80% of the world’s least developed countries are from the african, caribbean and pacific group (acp). it is only right and proper therefore that we in europe work together as nation states to cooperate with these nations and support balanced development of their societies. too often in the past, the eu placed prerequisite social obligations on these countries that are unachievable and which sadly have led to lost potential in terms of how we can contribute to a better future and higher standard of living for people in those communities. the number one driver both socially and economically in these countries is to provide sustainable investment, creating local jobs and giving people, young and old, a true stake in society. this gives structure and organisation to societies and will nurture greater respect for democratic values. with the trust fund for africa, these institutions have sent a message to governments of these nations that mass migration to the eu brings financial reward for them. this is not sustainable. a new acp-eu settlement should therefore focus on incentivising economic development in indigenous communities, sustainable land use and agricultural production and above all enhanced access to education for young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the non-legislative report. the eu wants to expand its influence over the less economically developed countries of the african, the caribbean and the pacific states group (acp) with the use of the eur 30 billion of the european development fund (edf), which is outside of the eu budget. the acp institutions see low-level attendance and produce few results. the eu finances 50% of the costs of the acp secretariat. ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it highlights the need to keep the binding legal provisions of cotonou and to strengthen them further whilst boosting the legitimacy of inter-ministerial forums, particularly by including national parliaments to increase legitimacy. the emphasis should be on regional cooperation on the day-to-day level, with the acp architecture remaining as a forum to promote common standards on issues such as human rights and environment.
in writing. – ukip voted against the non-legislative report. the eu wants to expand its influence over the less economically developed countries of the african, the caribbean and the pacific states group (acp) with the use of the eur 30 billion of the european development fund (edf), which is outside of the eu budget. the acp institutions see low-level attendance and produce few results. the eu finances 50% of the costs of the acp secretariat. ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it highlights the need to keep the binding legal provisions of cotonou and to strengthen them further whilst boosting the legitimacy of inter-ministerial forums particularly by including national parliaments to increase legitimacy. the emphasis should be on regional cooperation on the day to day level with the acp architecture remaining as a forum to promote common standards on human rights, environment, etc.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the non-legislative report. the eu wants to expand its influence over the less economically developed countries of the african, the caribbean and the pacific states group (acp) with the use of the eur 30 billion of the european development fund (edf), which is outside of the eu budget. the acp institutions see low-level attendance and produce few results. the eu finances 50% of the costs of the acp secretariat. ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the non-legislative report. the eu wants to expand its influence over the less economically developed countries of the african, the caribbean and the pacific states group (acp) with the use of the eur 30 billion of the european development fund (edf), which is outside of the eu budget. the acp institutions see low-level attendance and produce few results. the eu finances 50% of the costs of the acp secretariat. ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as this is the eu trying to expand their influence.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted for the report on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020. it calls for breaking down the acp into regional blocs whilst maintaining the cap as an umbrella organisation, and for the sustainable development goals (sdgs) to be incorporated as the guiding aim of development cooperation between the eu-acp amongst the other measures concerning cooperation between the acp-eu.
in writing. ‒ with my socialist colleagues, i supported this report because cooperation between eu and acp should be maintained as it is a valuable tool for encouraging a large number of countries to work together in international development. the new approach of regionalisation gives more flexibility to have tailor-made cooperation between smaller groups of countries. and finally, the human rights perspective will also be given more visibility and better enforcement through a biennial reporting mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the eu is a global leader of the sustainable development agenda, and the relationship between the eu and the acp countries is a cornerstone of that agenda. that relationship must be based on promoting fair and equitable trade, as advocated in the alternative trade mandate. relations with acp countries must put people and planet first, setting out a common agenda on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, as well as empowerment of women and young people. i would especially like to emphasise the importance of youth participation and empowerment, particularly of women and girls. the existing agreement stipulates cooperation to help children and young people fulfil their potential, and i would like to see those commitments strengthened post-2020.
blue-card question. – winston churchill called socialism the equal sharing of miseries. at what point are you willing to concede that the misery the eurozone has created across southern europe is the point at which it should be dissolved and that the best boost for greece and southern europe is to revert back to national currencies? surely that is the way forward if you want to stop countries leaving the european union. britain will not be the first. it will not be the last either, come the revolution.
madam president, after a decade of economic cruelty and an austerity-driven recession driven by the european central bank, the eu commission, the imf and, of course, the hands of the government in greece, syriza; after a decade which has seen youth unemployment rates consistently at 50%, a decade where 45% of greek pensioners live below the poverty line of eur 655 a month, a decade of the highest levels of suicide known in the western world, a decade in which we have seen all the assets of greece handed over, we who had said to greece that we have seen this tragedy, have recognised that this was a battle to the death between those who wanted to save the euro, and the dignity and the lives of the greek people. they wanted to save the eu commissioners’ salaries, rather than the lives of the european people. that is why we said the euro was not more important than ordinary citizens’ lives. greece should have left the euro. you know it over there, and you failed in your job to protect them.
blue-card question. – mr kuźmiuk, you speak on behalf of your conservative group and argue in your group that social protection for workers is a bad thing and should be stripped away, and that that is going to help. but when we look at greece, and even at what the imf says, the sort of reductions of social protection that your group advocates leads to more firing and less hiring. do you accept that today in greece – which you profess to be concerned about – the maintenance of social protection for the rights of employees is important?
madam president, the enormous rewards at the top of corporate businesses pose major conflict of interest challenges. put bluntly, pay packages have become so big that former eu commissioners have potential access to untold riches after retiring from public service and there is growing concern that future awards may start to impinge on the consciousness of current commissioners. the position obtained by mr barroso with goldman sachs is a case in point. could such a bonanza affect the thinking of a current commissioner involved in regulating markets? i fear it could. the european ombudsman has already criticised the barroso commission for laxity in this area, calling for a tougher code of conduct. i must advise this chamber that the growing gulf between the eu and those it governs was a key weapon for people like me in the uk referendum. so, if the ethical arguments for tougher constraints do not sway you, then you might like to contemplate the imperative for self-preservation instead.
madam president, the bahamas papers revealed again the central role played in the murky global network of tax havens by the british overseas territories, former colonies and the city of london itself. in the first session of our inquiry committee, we heard that the london property market boom feeds on tax avoidance. as with the panama papers, another member of the uk government has been implicated. our home secretary, amber rudd, was named as being a director of two companies in the bahamas. secrecy means we actually cannot tell what companies she controlled, what they were doing, how much money she earned and how much tax was actually avoided. this lack of accountability is precisely what tax havens offer and is why people use them. our panama papers committee is dedicated to shining a light into these dark corners and i will be insisting that amber rudd is called before us. the ease with which the home secretary was able to avoid answering questions about her involvement in the bahamas is evidence of the weakness of democratic accountability in the uk. i am glad that we will have a chance to tackle this during our work in the panama papers committee.
madam president, like so many of us, i was shocked and appalled when i saw that the former commission president barroso was going to work for goldman sachs, one of the banks that was implicated in causing the financial and eurozone crisis. there is no doubt that history will judge this as a disgraceful cynical move. i am very glad that the eu ombudsman, and now the european commission, have listened to citizens and commission staff petitions and concerns about this, and that they are now investigating the case. there is no doubt that the commission needs to tighten its ethics rules for commissioners and now is the time. it is also an opportunity for citizens to get involved in eu politics and speak up; to call out conflict of interests and corruption where it is manifested. the eu belongs to its citizens, and has the democratic tools to listen to those concerns and to investigate and penalise mr barroso. i will continue to pursue this case and will continue to call for transparent and clean politics in the uk and in the eu.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i think it is clear that issues of solidarity and delivery of international responsibilities are as important in calais as anywhere else in the european union and beyond. but i think it is also clear, when we look at calais, that deterrence policies over the years clearly have not worked and that the so-called jungle is a reflection of a long—term problem with no coherent ongoing governmental response. i have been going to calais since the years of sangatte, i have been there with the road haulage association and we know the problems well. it is a long-standing history of french failure to deliver effectively on its obligations, aided and abetted by a uk government that we know drags its heels to deliver safety and security, even to children who are clearly entitled to be in the uk. every time the camp at calais is destroyed, children go missing and smuggling gangs responsible for much of the violence there gain more customers because people simply don’t trust the state. my french colleagues and i have again written to the relevant authorities to ask them to just do their jobs properly. it should not be left to ngos, such as citizens uk, to identify children who have a right to join their families in the uk. building walls displaces problems. it does not solve them. that money would be much better spent on the french and british governments properly managing the asylum system in the region, which will provide safety, information and choices for people in need, be better for the local economy and certainly provide greater security for drivers.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the calais crisis is a goldmine for people traffickers and criminal gangs and it is aided and abetted by the european union. british drivers’ lives have been put at risk for months from people the left insist on calling refugees, even though the majority are not. last year i sat in a lorry in calais whilst armed migrants broke into vehicles, the drivers unable to stop them. closing the jungle will not stop the crisis. it will just move it along the coast to smaller ports like zeebrugge and cherbourg, two places where i have personally witnessed criminal gangs in action. and it moves the problem in the uk from the south-east coast to ports like hull and immingham. we already have insufficient border staff, thanks to theresa may. millions of pounds of british taxes are being spent fruitlessly building walls, whilst the french blame the uk, and not their politicians who signed up to schengen. the eu created this mess. it will not be solved until we turn migrant boats in the mediterranean back, and deport people who are not genuine refugees.
madam president, thank you for the opportunity to take part in this stage-managed, pretend debate where people on the other side of the house can come out with figures about the people who are in that calais jungle without the slightest shred of evidence. i will tell you why i know this: because i have been there and there are a thousand people registered and 10 000 people outside the walls, not registered. so how you can come up with a figure for children is nonsense. you can wave all the pretend leaflets you like. it makes no difference. i did not realise until tonight that france was a totalitarian state, persecuting and prosecuting people, and where people are in fear of their lives. if it is not, then there are no refugees or asylum seekers in calais or anywhere else, there are only criminals seeking to break uk laws to get into the country or people being trafficked by criminals to get into our country. the french nation has a proud tradition. i believe that the french government has let the french people down. it is time for them to be honourable, dismantle these camps, break up these criminal gangs, register genuine asylum seekers and stop the other economic migrants seeking to break the law to get into the uk.
mr president, the british border has been on french soil since the treaty of le touquet in 2003. it is that agreement which gave rise to the calais jungle, and that migrant camp for over 10 years has been getting steadily bigger, steadily more desperate and steadily more violent. both the british government and the french government have got a duty to ensure safe passage for all legitimate cross-channel traffic, to forcefully uphold national immigration policies and to provide all necessary humanitarian aid. but there are dangers. first, that in tightening border controls we just displace the problem elsewhere or, we force migrants into ever more desperate measures, such a small boats. and second, in addressing the situation locally, we lose sight of the bigger global problem. we welcome the commission’s help and support with the problem, but i urge them to remember that migrants all over the world are the consequence of the widening gap between the world’s rich nations and the world’s poor nations, and of climate change and violence. in addressing migration, therefore, we must understand the importance of directing our efforts to the cause, not just to the symptoms.
in writing. – over 600 unaccompanied children who are trapped in the calais jungle will be made homeless by christmas. these children face human traffickers, police violence, sexual abuse and even death trying to reach the uk in a desperate hope for a safe and better future. it is now more urgent than ever for the uk government to get these children to safety. but the situation at the camp is driven by a lack of intervention on both sides of the channel. since there is no legal recognition of the camp, there is no formal registration of children. since there is no official agency operating at the camp, no one knows what actually happens to these children. according to ngos, nearly half of them have the right to come to the uk. yet the uk government fails to act. only around 50 children were brought to the uk under the eu’s dublin regulation and not one child has been relocated under the dubs amendment. i implore the uk government to uphold the rule of law and bring these children to safety before the upcoming demolition of the camp. britain must step up and show leadership in the face of this humanitarian crisis.
mr president, i love trains, i love transport and i want to continue to make it really easy for young people to travel by train across europe, across the eu and outside the eu, and i want to make sure it is cheap. but do we have to make it free? when i talk to young people, they ask me whether they are studying the right course to get a job; whether they will ever get a job; if when they get a job they will have a home; how they can go and study abroad; what they should do with their university fees. and then they might get onto human rights, they might talk about war, they might talk about the migration crisis and they might talk about climate change and equality, but no young person has ever asked me for a free railway ticket. so let’s keep it cheap, let’s keep it affordable, but let’s encourage young people to do what i did, which is to get a part—time job and buy a cheap ticket and go and enjoy travelling across europe with the money they have had from their own opportunities, from their own earnings.
mr president, this proposal is insane. this is a recycling of an old idea from the german greens – and they like recycling, obviously – but with their customary ignorance of the costs of these schemes. the commission has already rejected the idea once, but in your blind panic at realising that your precious project is now seen as an encumbrance – in fact, an irrelevance to the peoples of our continent – you have reached down into the wastebasket of forgotten grandiose money-wasting schemes and brought out this particular rotten apple. the truth is, you are only doing it because you see your great project slipping through your fingers and, as always when you fail with your policies, you resort to propaganda and bribery. so if you spend eur 361 for each 18—year—old in the eu on this hare-brained irrelevance, it will cost eur 1.9 billion a year. even by the standards of the eu, this is madness. when the countries of southern europe are being crushed underfoot by germany’s insistence that the interests of the euro and the french and german banks should be placed above the lives of ordinary citizens and steel workers in the united kingdom are losing their livelihoods by the thousands, you people are proposing to waste around eur 2 billion a year on this soviet-style intourist propaganda vehicle. nero would applaud your insistence on fiddling while europe burns.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, eu legislation to scrap data roaming charges was widely publicised by the remain campaign as one of the great reasons to stay in the eu. but, as many of us have learned, eu interference on markets simply pushes up prices for businesses and consumers alike, and this case is no exception. one uk network operator has announced that the priced call internationally will rise by 60% a minute, whilst another has announced that domestic call prices will be increased by 25% a minute. eu interference in this area was at least meant to open up market competition by allowing consumers the choice from across the continent, but compromises to the text now mean that roaming abroad will still have its limits, leaving most citizens tied to purchasing from a domestic network provider. more regulation, less competition and higher prices exemplify all the reasons why britain will be better off outside the single market.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this resolution calls for the commission to get on with the job of installing the european public prosecutor. the uk supposedly has an opt-out from the jurisdiction of the public prosecutor, but this is effectively worthless. the prosecutor could easily bypass the uk’s opt—out by using the legal instruments and institutions that the uk has already subjected itself to through the auspices of the member states. unsurprisingly enough, that brings me onto the subject of brexit. when the uk leaves the eu, we must repeal all the legal instruments we have enacted, such as the european arrest warrant, and withdraw from legal institutions such as eurojust. we must replace them with genuine cooperative measures such as those that existed before, for example the european convention on extradition and interpol – but all suitably revised, of course, to ensure that the protection of the rights of british citizens under our own law is the priority.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, let me start actually by responding to a couple of points that gianni pitella made. gianni said that the british government had decided to repeal all eu legislation. actually what they have decided to do is to transpose, in simple terms, eu legislation to make it stable in uk law. when the uk leaves the eu then you can actually start unpicking the law that has been transposed from the eu into the uk. i would ask you to be factually correct in these debates, especially if we are going to have an atmosphere of good cooperation to get a deal that is good for the eu and the uk at the end. secondly, i have to say i do agree with you that bratislava was a wasted opportunity because if the bratislava summit was supposed to show the eu united and reconnecting with the people, then surely it was nothing short of an own goal: eu leaders meeting in a fortress, taking a lunch on a private yacht, followed by the italian prime minister pulling out of a press conference, frustrated that other leaders had failed to agree anything of substance. perhaps the only difference between this summit and the others that have come before was that this time you could not really blame the uk for the failure to achieve any kind of agreement. when i saw reports of something not going very far, going round in circles for fear of being grounded, i wondered if they were talking about the summit itself, but it turns out they were talking about the yacht on which the leaders had their lunch. so if we are to truly fix what is broken, if we are to truly offer answers where the public has questions, if we are to truly show strength where there is currently weakness, then the next summit must achieve real results. the leaders of eu countries must show that they can lead because at the moment all the leaders can see is eu leaders pursuing yesterday’s european project rather than addressing today’s concerns. we all need answers to the big questions: solving the migrant and refugee crisis, encouraging businesses to create more jobs, tackling internal and external security threats. yet what emerges from this chamber? politicians shouting ‘no’ to austerity, politicians proposing free interrail passes, politicians protesting against trade with the us, full of slogans but bereft of action. we need to show our citizens in all our countries that we understand their concerns. so when our citizens ask for fair but controlled immigration, let us be tough on those that attempt to jump the queue over others applying through legal migration channels, but compassionate to those who deserve our shelter, returning those who are not fleeing persecution or war. when citizens of all the countries worry about an increasingly arrogant russia, let us use fewer carrots and more sticks, speaking out on behalf of those member states that share a border with an increasingly intimidating neighbour, showing russia that their actions do not come without consequences. as manfred weber said, we believe we should be tough and that sanctions should not be lifted until the minsk agreement is implemented. when the citizens of all our countries worry about a lack of jobs, let us remove the red tape holding back entrepreneurs from creating those jobs. let us sign a trade agreement that offers businesses in all our countries new opportunities. let us send a clear signal that we are open to trade with canada and then other countries. with every summit, with every meeting, we edge closer and closer to the next elections. at best, the eu has a record that shows it ploughed on with more of the same; at worst, that it pushed on with policies that failed. but it is a situation that needs fixing. it is a situation that the ecr group of meps from 18 countries believes can be fixed, if only we were to take a new direction. the results of referenda in denmark, netherlands, and the uk show all of us that it cannot be business as usual but neither does it mean that there is not business to be done. where past summits have failed to meet expectations, let us hope the next summit offers all of us solutions.
mr president, it has been over 100 days since the united kingdom and 72% of my constituents in thurrock voted to leave the european union, and let’s look at what happened: project fear has unravelled, countries are rushing to do trade deals with the united kingdom, and our prospects look better. but people are coming up to me and asking, ‘well, why haven’t we left yet? what’s stopping them?’ the answer is quite simple. rule number one: never trust a tory. rule number two: obey rule number one. our newly unelected prime minister isn’t an iron lady: she is tinfoil theresa may. and just look at her record. when she was home secretary, she oversaw mass immigration that would have made the labour party wince. she voted for remain. she oversaw policies that squeezed the working classes the most. she cannot deliver the deal that the british people voted for. and the message is clear: tear up the european communities act, get our borders back, and get our fisheries back. we voted to get our country back, and by god, we will get it back.
mr president, sunday saw the start of rosh hashanah, the jewish new year. with a rise in anti-semitism not just across the european union, but across the globe, and with jewish communities across the european union facing greater security issues at their schools and at their synagogues, would it not be a good opportunity to wish europe’s jewish citizens a happy and a sweet new year? (applause)
in writing. – ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report to endorse the council decision to authorise the accession of peru to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is a multilateral treaty to ensure that children wrongfully taken into another country, often by a parent or guardian, are brought back to their home country. a ruling of the european court of justice in 2014 found that the eu now has exclusive external competence in these matters, but the convention does not allow for international organisations – such as the eu – to sign the convention themselves. this council decision is therefore necessary to allow member states to accept the accession of peru to the convention, bringing the convention into force between the entire eu and peru.
in writing. ‒ under normal circumstances, i would vote against or abstain on resolutions involving the european union’s participation in international bodies and organisations because i believe that it’s not for the european union to make such decisions. in this situation, however, the question is whether peru should be allowed to accede to the hague convention. it should be a vote of the british parliament, but it is not, because such sovereignty has been ceded. if the european parliament were to vote against accession, it would penalise children at risk of abduction in that country. therefore i voted in favour of accession, despite my constitutional concerns.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. – ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which is a multilateral treaty that provides a way for abducted children to be returned from one member country to another. countries need to work together in order to tackle international, cross-border problems like these, and for peru to join will enlarge this network to fight child abduction more effectively. i support any measures which help safeguard the well-being of children in wales.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en masse by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the accession of peru to protect children which find themselves in legal uncertainty. the hague convention enables signatory states to settle cross-border cases regarding child custody and abduction. it is a fundamental tool that clarifies the applicable national law in cases where there is a conflict of competence between two or more national legal systems.
in writing. – diane james and her ukip mep colleagues chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as the accession will allow states acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted for the package on the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this is important for engagement in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. ‒ as a children’s rights champion, i welcome the accession of peru to this important convention. this will allow peru to cooperate with other state parties to the convention, including eu member states, on tackling and combating child abduction.
in writing. – ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report to endorse the council decision to authorise the accession of kazakhstan to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is a multilateral treaty to ensure that children wrongfully taken into another country, often by a parent or guardian, are brought back to their home country. a ruling of the european court of justice in 2014 found that the eu now has exclusive external competence in these matters, but the convention does not allow for international organisations – such as the eu – to sign the convention themselves. this council decision is therefore necessary to allow member states to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, bringing the convention into force between the entire eu and kazakhstan.
in writing. ‒ under normal circumstances, i would vote against or abstain on resolutions involving the european union’s participation in international bodies and organisations because i believe that it’s not for the european union to make such decisions. in this situation, however, the question is whether kazakhstan should be allowed to accede to the hague convention. it should be a vote of the british parliament, but it is not, because such sovereignty has been ceded. if the european parliament were to vote against accession, it would penalise children at risk of abduction in that country. therefore i voted in favour of accession, despite my constitutional concerns.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. – ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which is a multilateral treaty that provides a way for abducted children to be returned from one member country to another. countries need to work together in order to tackle international, cross-border problems like these, and for kazakhstan to join will enlarge this network to fight child abduction more effectively. i support any measures which help safeguard the well-being of children in wales.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en masse by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support the package on the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this is important for engagement in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. – ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as the accession will allow states acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted for the package on the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this is important for engagement in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. ‒ as a children’s rights champion, i welcome the accession of kazakhstan to this important convention. this will allow it to cooperate with other state parties to the convention, including eu member states, on tackling and combating child abduction.
in writing. – ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report to endorse the council decision to authorise the accession of korea to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is a multilateral treaty to ensure that children wrongfully taken into another country, often by a parent or guardian, are brought back to their home country. a ruling of the european court of justice in 2014 found that the eu now has exclusive external competence in these matters, but the convention does not allow for international organisations – such as the eu – to sign the convention themselves. this council decision is therefore necessary to allow member states to accept the accession of korea to the convention, bringing the convention into force between the entire eu and korea.
in writing. ‒ under normal circumstances, i would vote against or abstain on resolutions involving the european union’s participation in international bodies and organisations because i believe that it’s not for the european union to make such decisions. in this situation, however, the question is whether south korea should be allowed to accede to the hague convention. it should be a vote of the british parliament, but it is not, because such sovereignty has been ceded. if the european parliament were to vote against accession, it would penalise children at risk of abduction in that country. therefore i voted in favour of accession, despite my constitutional concerns.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. – ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the accession of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which is a multilateral treaty that provides a way for abducted children to be returned from one member country to another. countries need to work together in order to tackle international, cross-border problems like these, and for korea to join will enlarge this network to fight child abduction more effectively. i support any measures which help safeguard the well-being of children in wales.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en masse by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support the package on the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. once again, this is important for engagement in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. – ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as the accession will allow acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this vote because it is such an emotive issue. the right of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is extremely important; however, this should be done at the will of the individual country and not en bloc by the eu.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted for the package on the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this is important for engagement in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. ‒ as a children’s rights champion, i welcome the accession of korea to this important convention. this will allow it to cooperate with other state parties to the convention, including eu member states, on tackling and combating child abduction.
in writing. – ukip has voted against the non-legislative motion for a resolution for global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. this calls on member states to invest financially in projects, but this could lead to a misuse of funds. in addition, it calls on the eu to influence countries on nationalising industries, but the eu has no right to intervene in nation state affairs. ukip does not support the increasing influence of the eu over nation states.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report which dealt with the issue of food security, especially in the developing world. there were many excellent points made in this report including highlighting the negative impacts on nutrition of: industrial agriculture; the privatisation of seeds; gmos; and land-grabbing. local food production linking in small-scale food producers is key to successfully tackling nutritional issues. this report also highlights that the right to water ‘goes hand-in hand’ with the right to food and that the un resolution of 2010 has not yet resulted in decisive action to establish the right to water as a human right.
in writing. ‒ this matter was not the subject of a roll-call vote. in the interests of democracy and transparency, i would therefore like to confirm that i voted against the final resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against the non-legislative motion for a resolution for global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. the resolution calls on member states to financially invest in projects, but this could lead to a misuse of funds. also it calls on the eu to influence countries on nationalising industries, but the eu has no right to intervene in nation state affairs. ukip does not support the increasing influence of the eu over nation states.
in writing. – ukip has voted against the non-legislative motion for a resolution for global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. it calls on member states to financially invest in projects and this could lead to a misuse of funds. also it calls on the eu to influence countries on nationalising industries but the eu has no right to intervene in nation state affairs. ukip does not support the increasing influence of the eu over nation states.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against the non-legislative motion for a resolution for global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. the resolution calls on member states to financially invest in projects, but this could lead to a misuse of funds. also it calls on the eu to influence countries on nationalising industries, but the eu has no right to intervene in nation state affairs. ukip does not support the increasing influence of the eu over nation states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the non-legislative motion for a resolution for global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. this calls on member states to financially invest in projects, but this could lead to a misuse of funds. it also calls on the eu to influence countries on nationalising industries, but the eu has no right to intervene in nation state affairs. ukip does not support the increasing influence of the eu over nation states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the motion on global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. the report highlights the need to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030, through the support of smallholders’ farms and sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems.
in writing. – ukip has voted against the non-legislative motion for a resolution for global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. this calls on member states to financially invest in projects, but this could lead to a misuse of funds. also it calls on the eu to influence countries on nationalising industries, but the eu has no right to intervene in nation state affairs. ukip does not support the increasing influence of the eu over nation states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it underlines the importance of achieving sustainable development goal 2 aimed at ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by increasing the productivity of smallholders’ farms, achieving sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against the non-legislative motion for a resolution for global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. this calls on member states to financially invest in projects, but this could lead to a misuse of funds. also it calls on the eu to influence countries on nationalising industries, but the eu has no right to intervene in nation state affairs. ukip does not support the increasing influence of the eu over nation states.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted against the non-legislative motion for a resolution for global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. this calls on member states to financially invest in projects, but this could lead to a misuse of funds. also it calls on the eu to influence countries on nationalising industries, but the eu has no right to intervene in nation state affairs. ukip does not support the increasing influence of the eu over nation states.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the motion on global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. the report underlines the importance of ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by increasing the productivity of smallholders’ farms, achieving sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems. we want to see the european commission, the council, the member states and the international community, as well as developing countries’ governments commit to fighting all forms of malnutrition and to mobilise long-term financial investments for food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the motion on global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. the report underlines the importance of ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by increasing the productivity of smallholders’ farms, achieving sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems. we want to see the commission, the council, the member states and the international community, as well as developing countries’ governments, commit to fighting all forms of malnutrition and to mobilise long-term financial investments for food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture.
in writing. ‒ as a children’s rights and women’s rights champion, it is important for me to join in the call to eliminate malnutrition and hunger in the world. the eu must ensure policy coherence for sustainable development, trade, and economic and humanitarian assistance in order to achieve that goal and should therefore give more attention to the alternative trade mandate and the field work of organisations such as care international and world vision.
in writing. – ukip meps voted against this motion for resolution. ukip does not support the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office, which will have powers that greatly infringe on national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ this matter was not the subject of a roll-call vote. in the interests of democracy and transparency, i would like to confirm that i voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this motion for resolution. ukip does not support the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office which will have powers that greatly infringe on national sovereignty.
in writing. – ukip meps voted against this motion for resolution. ukip does not support the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office which will have powers that greatly infringe on national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this motion for resolution. ukip does not support the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office which will have powers that greatly infringe on national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ northern ireland has for many years been the focus of organised criminality led by paramilitaries and in particular republican terror gangs in border areas. i have therefore seen the dreadful consequences of fuel and money laundering, of smuggling, on our economy and the success of local communities. it is vital that we combat those involved in this activity. we must break down the structures that govern this illegal behaviour and protect those citizens who are at risk. it will also come as no shock that i believe it should be primarily the role of national crime-fighting authorities to lead these efforts. instead of promoting more integration of policing, investigation and legal systems, this parliament must better support member states to tackle corruption and organised crime at the grassroots. the national crime agency is now fully operational in northern ireland, working hard to prevent, detect and punish those responsible in these crimes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for resolution. i do not support the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office which will have powers that greatly infringe on national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i and fellow labour meps abstained on the resolution as the text is still unclear on the eppo structure and impact on the uk criminal system. we must avoid conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law so not to hinder the work of national practitioners.
in writing. – diane james mep and her ukip colleagues voted against this motion for resolution. ukip does not support the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office which will have powers that greatly infringe on national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this motion for resolution. ukip does not support the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office which will have powers that greatly infringe on national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this motion for resolution. ukip does not support the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office which will have powers that greatly infringe on national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ today, along with other labour meps, i have chosen to abstain from the vote on the resolution as it is still unclear what the structure of the eppo will be and the impact such a structure could have on the uk criminal system. it is essential that we avoid conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law in order to not hinder the work of national practitioners. failure to do so could lead to a supranational body which may interfere with their daily work and which may influence priority setting at the national level.
mr president, we all know the pain and damage of industrial restructuring. like the examples of alstom and caterpillar, many manufacturers are facing tough and uncertain times across the continent, threatening the livelihoods of millions of working people. following the decision to leave the eu, this threat is, for british industry, all the more acute than ever before and has been intensified by the threat of the loss of single market access. we need real industrial and trade strategies which provide a clear policy framework and road maps for industrial sectors and the regional economies that support them. while the critical mass of the eu is vital for industrial research and development programs and for fairness in international markets, this can only be achieved with substantial investment in key infrastructure and open dialogue with all stakeholders. we have heard many platitudes, but now we need to see real action in the eu – and especially in the uk – for our manufacturing workforce.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. while of course ukip sympathises with the sudden loss of jobs, the resolution was being used as an excuse for the eu to take more action and create an eu ‘reindustrialisation policy’. the only people who should decide economic policy are our elected national governments, not unaccountable bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – our group in parliament met with caterpillar workers and representatives, including those from the north of ireland, and in view of the situation as they explained it, we drafted a strong motion which put the workers at its heart. in trying to find agreement for a joint motion with the other groups in parliament, the strong references to workers’ rights were watered down by those on the right of parliament. in conjunction with this, the right of parliament not only managed to remove the workers as central, but they shaped the motion in a way which put employers and shareholders as central. we always have had, and always will have, workers, their families, and their communities at heart when we vote on motions in relation to employment and social affairs in the european parliament. it was for this reason that we couldn’t support the joint motion today that didn’t have them at its heart.
in writing. ‒ whilst i opposed the final resolution as it calls for more eu legislation, i supported many amendments and parts of the original text which recognise the problems with these cases.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. while of course ukip sympathises with the sudden loss of jobs, the resolution was being used as an excuse for the eu to take more action and the create an eu ‘reindustrialisation policy’. the only people who should decide economic policy are our elected national governments, not unaccountable bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. while of course ukip sympathises with the sudden loss of jobs, the resolution was being used as an excuse for eu to take more action and the create an eu ‘reindustrialisation policy’. the only people who should decide economic policy are our elected national governments, not unaccountable bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. while of course ukip sympathises with the sudden loss of jobs, the resolution was being used as an excuse for eu to take more action and create an eu ‘reindustrialisation policy’. the only people who should decide economic policy are our elected national governments, not unaccountable bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ mr president, recent announcements by caterpillar have affected northern ireland, where up to 250 redundancies are scheduled at plants across ni. caterpillar has made an enormous contribution to the local economy over decades, and while this announcement is disappointing, we acknowledge that the firm views these actions as a means of consolidating its commitment to northern ireland. however, these job losses will affect families and households very deeply and very directly – and they must receive support. my colleagues at stormont and westminster continue to work to assist those workers affected; however, the significance of the uk government’s long-standing policy of not applying to the globalisation adjustment fund cannot be ignored. contrary to grandstanding by local politicians, this debate highlights that these jobs have been lost as a result of sensitive economic conditions. global downturns in demands for raw materials and problems in the oil industry have no doubt made a contribution. while northern ireland cannot dictate these forces, we must promote replacement investment in our province. our future outside the european union offers potential external to eu state aid rules and many damaging eu energy policies. it is vital that we harness these opportunities to grow our manufacturing base.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises the need to support the green economy, including public procurement, energy efficiency and renewable energy as well as the need to stop tax evasion. saving banks and markets did not improve the economy. wales needs sustainable development of the economy and social policies which will prevent mass job losses.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. while of course i sympathise with the sudden loss of jobs, the resolution was being used as an excuse for the eu to take more action and to create an eu ‘reindustrialisation policy’. the only people who should decide economic policy are our elected national governments, not unaccountable bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support the resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases, especially important as more reports indicate labour-intensive activities are being positioned outside of europe. deindustrialisation continues to affect certain regions acutely and that is why this report calls on the commission to set up a long-term european industrial strategy alongside rapidly available funds.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. while of course ukip sympathises with the sudden loss of jobs, the resolution was being used as an excuse for eu to take more action and create an eu ‘reindustrialisation policy’. the only people who should decide economic policy are our elected national governments, not unaccountable bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution. the european parliament has sent a strong political signal to the commission that europe must act to protect its industries and its jobs. the european parliament voted in favour of sanctions for companies that make redundancies based on stock markets. it is vital that we develop a real industrial policy for europe, with an investment strategy, a new competition policy and a trade policy to tackle social dumping.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. while of course ukip sympathises with the sudden loss of jobs, the resolution was being used as an excuse for eu to take more action and to create an eu ‘reindustrialisation policy’. the only people who should decide economic policy are our elected national governments, not unaccountable bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. while of course ukip sympathises with the sudden loss of jobs, the resolution was being used as an excuse for eu to take more action and to create an eu ‘reindustrialisation policy’. the only people who should decide economic policy are our elected national governments, not unaccountable bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases, this is important in light of the growing number of reports of labour-intensive activities being moved outside of europe and high unemployment levels. deindustrialisation continues to impact certain regions which is why the report calls on the commission to set up a long-term european industrial strategy and also rapidly mobilise all available funds. notably, this resolution also supports penalties against companies who make redundancies based on the stock market.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases, this is important in light of the growing number of reports of labour-intensive activities being moved outside of europe and high unemployment levels. deindustrialisation continues to impact certain regions, which is why the report calls on the commission to set up a long-term european industrial strategy and also rapidly mobilise all available funds. notably, this resolution also supports penalties against companies who make redundancies based on the stock market.
in writing. ‒ as the world’s largest market, and a global actor in trade, the eu is able to shape globalisation. this is something the uk has always benefited from, and risks losing as brexit unfolds. the eu needs a socially-sensitive industrial policy, which adjusts to the situation regarding global markets, and is compatible with trade policy, in order to safeguard european industries and create real sustainable and inclusive economic growth. the uk requires much the same kind of progressive industrial policy, regardless of the choices we make on brexit, and labour will continue to hold the tory government to account on this.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, five and a half years on from the first newspaper reports describing protests in damascus and aleppo as rare, it is difficult now to reconcile such media descriptions with the horrors and atrocities we see in syria. in those five and a half years, in this very house, i have advocated the merits of various policies, including a no-fly zone to curtail the capabilities of assad’s air force, to reluctantly working with the russians and the assad regime to defeat isis and other extremist groups like al—nusra, now rebranded as jabhat fateh al-sham. like so many other proposed solutions, these are all now largely unworkable and obsolete in the current context. we have over 1 000 armed groups and militias operating across the country. isis continues to hold huge swathes of territory and external interests are taking an ever—greater role in the conflict, and we are now descending into multiple proxy wars. russia’s decision to transport s 300 surface-to-air missiles is clearly targeted at further limiting the options of the us-led coalition to act against assad’s air force and increases the chances of unintentional escalation. following the recent breakdown of the latest kerry—lavrov ceasefire talks and the subsequent diplomatic fallout between america and russia, any hope now of trying to focus combined military efforts against isis and jabhat seems lost. russia is now more openly and brazenly than ever allying itself with assad’s brutal regime and is acting as a joint belligerent in the siege of aleppo, in addition to the support from iran. this offensive has the potential to become a turning point in the entire conflict. it could also prove to be one of the most deadly and atrocious. already we hear of hospitals and aid convoys being hit and the continued atrocious use of barrel and bunker-busting bombs against civilians. many politicians and voters still question the merits of intervention, and it is vital that we continue to make the case that there is not only a humanitarian imperative to act against authoritarian dictators killing innocent civilians with impunity, but that not acting also poses risks to our own societies. the conflict in syria has seen millions of people flee for their lives, many of whom have found their way to europe, as mr pittella pointed out. we have seen the huge debate that this has fuelled in europe and how mainstream parties of government are increasingly being pressured by populist and right-wing parties to bring an end to mrs merkel’s – in my view, ill-advised – open door policy. for the first time i see the notion of european solidarity seriously challenged, and i witnessed first-hand how this issue of uncontrolled migration played out during the eu referendum campaign in my country into a brexit outcome. it is neither right nor possible to ignore what is happening in syria. we must not allow the legacy of iraq and afghanistan to completely tarnish the merits of intervention. after five and a half years of indecisiveness in the west, to limit our options, perhaps a de facto partition of syria is now the only hope for peace in that country.
blue-card question. – i have been debating on syria for five years in this house and have changed my mind. it is clear now that we should have done an awful lot more at the beginning, but sadly that was not the case. clearly, there is no good side in this horrible proxy civil war between sunni and syrian forces and war crimes have been committed on both sides, but russia now takes the biscuit – it is beyond the pale, using bombings of aid convoys, hospitals, bunker-busting bombs on underground shelters against civilians. these are war crimes. surely it is time to find ways to overcome the russian veto in the security council by uniting for peace under resolution 377. we cannot have russia abuse its position in the security council to actually allow it to commit crimes and ... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – the question is whether mr boştinaru agrees with me. i am asking what his thoughts are in using the uniting for peace 377 procedure in the general assembly to overcome the russian veto.
blue-card question. – 95% of the civilians that are being killed are being killed by the syrian regime, aided and abetted by iran and syria. so would it not be appropriate that we should be asking for sanctions against all three?
madam president, we got rid of saddam. we got rid of gaddafi. neither went particularly well, did it? now you want to get rid of assad. he may be unpalatable, but at least he ran a secular state protecting minorities, both religious and political. the eu seems to want to change this for an islamic state. we have a common enemy with the russians in the potential theocratic governments in the middle east. we should work with the russians, rather than against them, to combat the medieval religious anarchy ripping through the middle east, forcing refugees across the mediterranean, which in turn disrupts our cities with terrorism and spreads social problems throughout europe. the eu should stop its absolutely ludicrous posturing and get behind nato and the great powers. there are 400 000 dead in syria; 11 million displaced; 10 000 refugees picked up in the last two days. behave responsibly, for a change. mogherini has zero power. get behind the great powers and nato, and stop posturing for political reasons.
blue-card question. – you call for greater military powers for the european union. don’t you just realise that all you are doing is actually further complicating this tangled web, and don’t the various different political common interests and foreign policy interests within syria from very different actors just further complicate the situation?
madam president, turkey’s intervention in this increasingly complicated war is at the same time both welcome and dangerous and not all as it seems. kobanî became a recognised symbol of resistance, with brave kurdish forces drawing a line and pushing islamic states away from the turkish border, thus creating a zone of relative safety. as we know, their endeavours were repaid with turkish bombing raids and armoured convoys. now we have a key ally fighting western—backed kurdish groups and moderate opposition militias using the fight against islamic state as a smokescreen to spread its military campaign against the kurds into syria. then there are the traditional russian and middle eastern foreign policy interests to consider. peace cannot be secured and the inhumane actions dealt with until this illogical web of alliances is properly untangled for the benefit of humanity as a whole. the longer we take, the more the syrian people suffer.
madam president, the war in syria has raged for over five years now, but despite being an evident threat to european security, it would seem the eu is determined to continue flip-flopping on this issue. there is no better example of this than the recent multi-billion-euro deal approved by the eu to supply iran air with up to 118 modern airbus commercial aircraft. this is an airline associated with accusations of making over 200 flights this year alone to bring military communications equipment, strategic arms and military personnel to supply and support hezbollah and the assad regime, both of which are sanctioned by the eu. we are now in a position where european-built aircraft could be used to supply arms and equipment to forces ranged against nato. that is why i am today calling for the uk intervention in syria to stop. the eu is simply out of its depth in dealing with this crisis in syria, despite wanting ever greater involvement. it is time to learn the lessons of afghanistan, iraq and libya, and allow better-qualified actors to solve this most complex of problems.
mr president, the situation in syria is the world’s worst humanitarian catastrophe since the second world war. we must now establish a no-fly zone to defend syrian civilians. yes, daesh in syria is plotting against our security in europe, but daesh is only the secondary cancer. assad’s forces are the primary cancer. they are responsible for 500 000 civilian deaths. assad has largely refrained from attacking daesh-controlled territory and also cooperated with daesh in order to weaken the moderate opposition. russia is responsible for thousands of deaths since its direct intervention in syria. the cessation of hostilities a few weeks ago has now collapsed, as assad and russia have launched a new onslaught on aleppo. iran, on the one hand, seeks external investment to support a sanction-hit economy, but on the other hand it is projecting power with harmful consequences for the region. by helping assad it is supporting the yazidi government of our time. i am ashamed that the eu council cannot agree on a common eu way forward. europeans want sanctions against assad’s regime, russia and iran.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i was delighted last week at the signing of the much overdue colombian peace deal after 52 years of violent conflict. the result of the referendum, therefore, is hugely disappointing, but we must not allow it to be seen as a knockout blow. it is important that the international community now work to support president santos in finding a way through and that there be no resumption of violence. conflicts are always unique, each existing in response to their own context of time, location and history. in drawing comparisons and correlations, we should always do so with caution. but i cannot help but look to northern ireland at this moment, or more precisely, the good friday belfast agreement. we see in that deal the price of peace. yes, it means accepting amnesties, elements of criminal immunity, and inviting into the political fold those previously seen to be beyond the pale politically, but nearly 20 years on, we do not talk of that price, but of the great success. the peace deal with farc was about looking to the future. the referendum result has, sadly, been about delivering by looking to the past. today, i strongly encourage colombia to look again to the future, peace and prosperity.
mr president, i have worked for peace and human rights in colombia for all the time i have been a member of the european parliament, and i am proud to be part of the ngo ‘justice for colombia’. we should know with deep sadness the result in the referendum on the colombian peace deal. deeper still should be our determination to keep the quest for peace alive. european and international support is now more important than ever for this process. why would people vote for more bombings? why would people vote for more kidnappings? why would people vote for yet more bloodshed? i do not believe that they did. too many people thought that this deal involved impunity which it never did, and perhaps they were told so by people who themselves fear going to jail and whose own impunity is their own motivation. if so, what happened last weekend may have delayed the day of justice, but that day will come, and so, for the colombian people, will peace.
madam president, i want to say thank you to the many ‘black protest’ polish women who have come here today, and with whom i and others stand in solidarity, speaking up for women’s rights, which are most definitely human rights. you come from all walks of life and many of you have never been active in the public sphere before. you are different ages and from different socio-economic backgrounds and i know that because we have met today. faced with the worst kind of misogyny, repression and violation you have found your voices and here in the european parliament you have found a place to amplify that voice. you are now empowered and you must take courage and continue to occupy public space with your powerful, beautiful, creative actions because the women who come after you and the women and girls in other countries who are also depending, who are also under attack from the right-wing repressive policies, they are also depending on you to lead the way. thank you. continue to speak up. together we can be strong.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, after the consent you voted here yesterday, the council has adopted its decision on the conclusion of the agreement. this friday my colleague, environment minister sólymos will deposit, together with commissioner arias cañete, the eu ratification instrument to the united nations in new york. again, let me thank you for your cooperation, which allowed us to react immediately to the unprecedented international momentum, which was mentioned yesterday by the un secretary-general. the eu ratification will enable the entry into force of the paris agreement and make it possible that the first meeting of the parties to the paris agreement will be convened in november in marrakesh. and now specifically on marrakesh. the outcome of the paris conference, including the agreement, the cop decision and intended nationally determined budget contributions, needs to be implemented in all its elements. marrakesh will be the first opportunity to start the work on the details of the paris agreement and to prepare for its implementation. the eu and its member states are ready to engage in this work, which will include in particular the following elements: firstly, the development of common modalities for the transparency and accountability guidelines under the paris agreement. this work is critical. the enhanced transparency framework is the key element of the paris agreement, helping build mutual trust and underpinning effective implementation. the enhanced transparency process will help parties in preparing, communicating and accounting for successive nationally determined contributions. it will also be critical in providing robust data to support the global stocktake and for the assessment of progress towards the long-term goals of the paris agreement. secondly, the definition of modalities and inputs of the global stocktake (gst): the gst will provide the key political momentum and drive the parties’ domestic and cooperative action. it should drive more ambitious action by parties in their successive efforts, and its outcome will in turn inform parties in updating and enhancing their actions and support, as well as international cooperation. the paris agreement already determines some of the key aspects of the gst design, but specification on its inputs and modalities must help deliver its purpose and fulfil its role in the ambitious cycle. thirdly, further action by all parties individually and collectively will be required to re-orient finance flows and make them consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development. the eu and its member states are taking initiatives both domestically and internationally to support the shift of investments. we are contributing significantly to this transformation. in 2014, we provided eur 14.5 billion and the 2015 figures will become available before marrakesh. the eu and its member states remain committed to scaling up the mobilisation of climate finance as part of the global effort to assist developing countries to implement their low carbon sustainable development and in particular their nationally determined contributions (ndcs). domestic implementation, climate policies and measures to achieve intended ndcs and their full integration in national policies are of crucial importance. finally, i would like to briefly highlight at this point the ongoing legislative work on the implementation of the eu 2030 climate and energy framework, namely on the proposal to reform the ets sector and the proposals on non-ets. these measures will enable the target to reduce eu greenhouse gases emissions domestically by at least 40 % in 2030 compared to 1990 emissons to be achieved.
member of the commission. – madam president, first i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), and indeed the whole parliament, for their strong support to ratify quickly the paris agreement on behalf of the european union. yesterday’s plenary vote in this very chamber was a historic moment and a further demonstration of european resolve and determination to combat climate change. we can celebrate today the triggering of the entry into force of the paris agreement. in view of the cop22, the european union has a number of key priorities for advancing the paris agreement, as mentioned by the parliament in its oral question and the debate today. we need to be able to show clear progress on the implementation of all elements of the paris outcome. in particular, we must show that countries are putting in place ambitious climate policies and that they are getting ready to implement the nationally determined contributions under the paris agreement. within the european union, the recent decision to channel 40% of the european fund for strategic investments towards climate-relevant projects in the infrastructure and innovation window shows how we are aligning our instruments to deliver the paris commitments. we must also mobilise support for the implementation of the nationally determined contributions. the commission, through its international development and cooperation action, is already pressing on the ground in the most affected countries and supports national governments in their efforts on mitigation and adaptation. the european union’s new external investment plan is designed to leverage strategic investments in our partner countries, not only to support climate action but also to facilitate the delivery of the sustainable development goals. the global climate action agenda will also play a vital role in helping governments, business and other stakeholders to be inspired by the action around the world. when it comes to the negotiating agenda, marrakesh needs to make tangible progress on developing the detailed rule book of the paris agreement, including the five-yearly global stocktakes. we will need to assess where we are, what more needs to be done, and what the opportunities are for future action. at the european union level, our proposals on the 2030 legislative framework make clear provision for a review from 2024 onwards in order to take account of the results of the global stocktake under the paris agreement and evolving national circumstances. the 2018 facilitative dialogue will be a key political moment in the international climate negotiations. we will take stock of the collective efforts of the parties in progress towards the long—term emission reduction goal of the paris agreement. the dialogue will follow the special report to be published by the intergovernmental panel on climate change on emissions pathways compatible with limiting global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees centigrade. the commission supports the active participation of the european union in shaping the dialogue as the first important opportunity to take stock of the collective efforts of the parties. progress on climate finance is also critical. the european union is working with other developed country parties to deliver in marrakesh a concrete roadmap to mobilise the usd 100 billion annually by 2020 for mitigation and adaptation. the roadmap should provide greater transparency and bring stability to the collective efforts of developed countries. the european union remains committed to supporting partner countries in their efforts on climate action and remains the biggest donor region, our highest level ever in 2015. finally, it is crucial that prior to marrakesh we recall the need to make progress, as many members have pointed out, in other international fora. as you know, the icao assembly is taking place right now in montreal with a view to agreeing a global market—based mechanism in order to achieve the stabilisation of aviation emissions at 2020 levels. later this month, i will also be present in kigali with the aim of reaching an ambitious agreement on the global phase—down of hfcs under the montreal protocol. we have achieved remarkable progress this year on global climate action. less than 12 months ago, we adopted the paris agreement and its entry into force was triggered yesterday, but we still have much work to do to implement our commitments on the ground. i count on your continued support both here and in marrakesh, so that together we can make cop22 a real success.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the small increase in temperature we have seen over the past 100 years is entirely consistent with the natural long—term cyclical changes we have seen for at least 10 000 years and there has been no significant increase in warming since 1995. that the entire text of the motion for a resolution is based on the false assumption that climate change due to agw is occurring. we in ukip deny the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission, who both are responsible for our current damaging and counter—productive energy policies. to date, hundreds of energy—intensive industries, along with thousands of jobs, have left the eu and moved to the third world. despite this, the commission continues to impose never ending unrealistic objectives for emissions reductions. sadly such policies, which are forcing investment of vast sums of money will have little or no effect on climate. on leaving the eu, britain will be free to formulate its own energy policy whereby our poorest citizens will not be forced to choose between heating and eating.
madam president, i love to drive fast cars, and i just wish we had optional speed limits. but it seems we can have optional emissions limits under the paris climate deal. we are told again and again that it is legally binding, but in fact it is no such thing. there are no sanctions available, we are all terribly concerned about getting it ratified. but there is precious little hope that it will ever be implemented. if it were implemented, the eu only accounts for about 10% of global emissions, so we shall have no effect at all, while india and china continue to build coal-fired power stations. so what will we achieve? i will tell you what we will achieve: we will set in stone the competitive disadvantage in energy prices which we have chosen to impose upon ourselves. we will accelerate europe’s relative decline, we will leave our children and grandchildren poorer. the only good news is that after brexit the uk will be in a position to review the paris deal. i very much hope we have the common sense to repudiate it.
madam president, i say to the commissioner: i have watched you in this place, many times, often saying some quite uncomplimentary things about those of us on this side of the house. but today i am going to say something that i will probably never say to you again. i think you are right; transparency is absolutely vital. frankly, this should have been done a long time ago. i was thinking earlier that i do not even remember the european parliament discussing this before and it turns out that parliament’s resolution on this was two and a half years ago, before i was even elected as an mep. so it certainly is something that has taken a long time coming. transparency, of course, is something that should apply to all institutions, whether in the european union or elsewhere. i am disappointed at what i am hearing with regard to the council. the fact that there are more lobbyists on the register here than in the united states, as you said earlier, should not necessarily be a source of pride because actually so much lobbying leads to big-business lobbying, which leads to legislation that suits big business. we need to make sure that legislation that comes in, wherever it comes in, is legislation which suits smes and does not give big business a competitive advantage over the small businesses that should be the engine room of the economy.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, food packaging, kitchenware and dishes may contain substances of concern, such as endocrine disruptors and nanomaterials. these molecules can migrate into food and thus harm our health, as many scientific studies have shown. the text regulating materials in contact with foodstuffs therefore needs to be revised. the report presented points to the shortcomings of the commission and the european food safety authority. the report stresses the lack of assessment of these materials when they are authorised, the lack of collaboration between the agency and the chemical agency, and the lack of consideration of the effects of these products on pregnant and breastfeeding women. i have proposed amendments calling for the prohibition of all forms of bisphenol and not just bisphenol a, which has already been banned in france in all food containers since 2015. i hope that the recommendations of this report will be followed by action. failure to do so would prove once again that the european union is incapable of protecting public health.
madam president, food contact materials which are used in everyday life in the form of food packaging can be made from a variety of materials such as plastics, rubber, paper or metal, and may transfer their constituents to food, thus endangering human health. consumer health protection is fundamental, so it is important to ensure that any potential transfer to foodstuffs of chemicals that can contaminate or alter the composition of food in a detrimental way is prevented. currently, food contact materials are subject to legally binding requirements at eu level. to date, specific measures have been adopted for plastics, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active intelligent materials, and now the rapporteur calls on the commission to produce specific eu measures for all kinds of food contact material. there is no doubt that the safety of food contact materials must be seriously evaluated, as chemicals can easily migrate from the material into the food. however, member states should be free to adopt specific measures at national level for all kinds of food contact material so that these can be manufactured in compliance with good manufacturing practices.
madam president, the proposed food contact materials legislation represents a typically eu approach to speculative consumer concern. it will be prescriptive and oppressive, stifling innovation in a fast-moving sector that continuously monitors and responds to consumer concerns. the last thing that any food manufacturer wants to risk is its corporate reputation by supplying a product in suspect packaging. consumers can now be highly effective in influencing corporate behaviour through social media campaigns that would be unimaginable 20 years ago. there is now a strong demand from certain elements of society to know exactly how their food is produced and packaged. those suppliers who show reluctance to divulge information are quickly named and shamed. it is down to these suppliers to demonstrate a scientific argument strong enough to defeat empty rhetoric and clearly and honestly label their products so that the consumer can make the ultimate choice. i can well remember fish and chips being sold wrapped in discarded newspapers before we joined the eu. i can never remember anyone refusing to purchase them for this reason.
madam president, the prime minister, theresa may, has confirmed in no uncertain terms that brexit is happening. the british people will get what they voted for: control of their money, control of their borders and the right to make their own laws. article 50 is to be invoked by the spring and, after 45 years of surrendering control to brussels, british law will again rest supreme across the united kingdom. so in this debate on the application and monitoring of eu law, i am glad to say that the great repeal bill will give our national parliament its say. the sole right to make laws on behalf of the british people will rest with the british parliament and its devolved assemblies. so in this negotiation that is coming up i would urge all those people, on all sides, to be forward-thinking and outward-looking in defining a new and positive trading relationship with our neighbours in europe, and outward-looking in embracing new opportunities with the rest of the world. let us step up, not step back, and create a positive atmosphere for a new relationship within europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, how sad it is to be standing here again talking about appalling atrocities being committed in sudan. the use of gas, cluster bombs and rape as a weapon of war have no place in our world. these are crimes against our common humanity. i would like to pay tribute to all of the brave human rights defenders and activists, and civil society organisations and networks, who risk their lives on the ground in order to let the world know what is happening. we want to stand here in solidarity with you and give you a voice. i am eternally grateful to the british organisation ‘waging peace’ with whom i am in regular contact. what we must do as meps is to make sure that no eu aid money is funnelled to actors committing these terrible crimes, and also that the eu does not compromise on human rights protections when doing deals on migration in the region, including the khartoum agreement. we continue to work to hold the commission, the eeas and the council to account on this, day and night.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, sudan’s partition into two states was supposed to end decades of conflict blighting that country. however, this has unfortunately not proved to be the case with both countries still suffering the acrimony from internal conflict and persisting border disputes. the international community must do more to support the two countries working with both sudan and south sudan, and, of course, the regional institutions, to help resolve the border dispute and improve human rights in terms of security and personal dignity in both countries. the immediate humanitarian and security situation must be addressed and combined with genuine longer—term solutions. most pressing is the issue of the removal of punitive tariffs placed on trade. the liberalisation of these rules will not only do far more to support development and the chronic needs and daily lives of people in sudan, south sudan, and indeed africa as a whole, but will also help our own citizens through cheaper food and freeing up money which would otherwise go on foreign aid, which is not always ending up where it aims to be sent. the horn of africa is a tragedy, but there are some good parts of it not – not least somaliland and i, as you know, am a long-time advocate of support of international re-recognition of somaliland. i do not think that the issue of sudan and south sudan needs to be a precursor or a hurdle to the genuine aspirations of people in a different part of the horn of africa who have led a far different, and a far more peaceful and dignified, example.
author. – mr president, since the military coup in thailand of 2014, we have all been waiting for the promised return to democracy. we are told that following the introduction of the new constitution, democratic elections will go ahead next year, but we must question the degree of democracy on offer, in spite of the so-called democratic mandate required by the outcome of the referendum. an upper house entirely appointed by the military junta with powers to dissolve the government and appoint the prime minister is enough for me to question the democratic credentials of the new settlement for thailand. as for the case of my compatriot, andy hall, it is extremely concerning that the author of a report into migrant labour rights should end up with a criminal conviction and a three—year prison term. regardless of the underlying intent, this case will act as a deterrent to whistleblowers and human rights activists. so i am pleased that our resolution today calls for the thai authorities to decriminalise defamation laws, and i believe that this will go a long way to proving their commitment to improving working conditions for migrant labourers and supporting the efforts of those that seek to uncover such abuses.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the court verdict against andy hall is not, in reality, about offences that he committed. this was a verdict against freedom of expression and human rights defenders in general. the danger of it is that it will embolden other companies to file suits against activists and workers, and indeed this is already the case in relation to 14 chicken farmers in thailand. it is clear, as other colleagues have said, that there are significant loopholes in the defamation and cybercrime laws in thailand. it is these that have allowed the natural fruit company to bring this unjust case against mr hall. whilst we recognise that companies do have the right to sue on legitimate grounds of defamation, imprisonment is never an appropriate sentence in such cases. we encourage all governments to ensure their penal code contains effective guards against efforts aimed at silencing human rights activists and, in my last few seconds, i want to join heidi hautala in praising the s group in finland for their responsible approach to the supply chain and the actions that they have taken.
mr president, on behalf of andy’s constituency mep, glenis willmott, who has championed his case, and on behalf of andy himself, who told us this yesterday, this debate and resolution is not about andy personally. it is about an attempt to cover up abuses, low wages and child labour in the production of fruit juice that we go to carrefour, to morrison’s, and to other supermarkets to buy and to drink. to thailand i say: do not criminalise those who uncover the abuses, criminalise those who perpetrate them. to commissioner malmstrom i say: you and i went together to the dutch presidency conference on global supply chains. as csr rapporteur i say: the commission and parliament together have championed the un guiding principles on business and human rights. eu trade policy is supposed to support core labour standards and decent work. commissioner, in your reply tell us what these words mean in andy's case. what action have you taken and will you take so that the responsibility of european companies is fully upheld in the policies we say we follow and so that we are not as complicit as anyone in thailand for the abuses that andy has uncovered?
in writing. – this non-legislative resolution calls on the commission to act, and in particular to ‘make sure that ifrs 9 serves the eu’s long-term investment strategy’. this would be putting the cart before the horse. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against due to the calls for commission action in this regard.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative resolution calls on the commission to act, and in particular to ‘make sure that ifrs 9 serves the eu’s long-term investment strategy’. this would be putting the cart before the horse. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – this non-legislative resolution calls on the commission to act, and in particular to ‘make sure that ifrs 9 serves the eu’s long-term investment strategy’. this would be putting the cart before the horse. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative resolution calls on the commission to act, and in particular to ‘make sure that ifrs 9 serves the eu’s long-term investment strategy’. this would be putting the cart before the horse. accordingly i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion, as i support reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards to ensure transparency and accountability.
in writing. – this non-legislative resolution calls on the commission to act, and in particular to ‘make sure that ifrs 9 serves the eu’s long-term investment strategy’. this would be putting the cart before the horse. accordingly ukip voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as i support a reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards to ensure transparency and accountability.
in writing. – this non-legislative resolution calls on the commission to act, and in particular to ‘make sure that ifrs 9 serves the eu’s long-term investment strategy’. this would be putting the cart before the horse. accordingly ukip voted against it.
in writing. – this non-legislative resolution calls on the commission to act, and in particular to ‘make sure that ifrs 9 serves the eu’s long-term investment strategy’. this would be putting the cart before the horse. accordingly ukip voted against it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the motion on the european parliament resolution on international financial reporting standards: ifrs 9. it stresses the need to gain a better understanding of the impact of ifrs 9 not only on the insurance sector, the banking sector and the financial markets in general, but also on the financial sector as a whole.
in writing. – this is a non-legislative and non-binding resolution. ukip remains gravely concerned by the ongoing conflict in syria and is fully supportive of efforts to create a lasting and peaceful political solution. however, we cannot support eu posturing on foreign policy issues or any calls for eu action. the united nations, primarily the security council, remains the most relevant forum for achieving a lasting solution. therefore we abstained on this resolution.
in writing. – we voted in favour of the resolution. while it has shortcomings, its focus on the de-escalation of violence, the protection of innocents and the need to protect humanitarian aid means we were able to support it. sinn féin has an issue with the resolution mentioning the syrian regime and russia in isolation. there are several parties to this conflict, all of whom are inflicting casualties on a civilian population. all parties to the conflict should cease operations against civilian targets or infrastructure, and that includes western powers such as the usa and eu member states such as britain and france.
in writing. ‒ i am hugely concerned by the situation in syria. overall it felt appropriate for me to abstain on this resolution, despite me finding myself in agreement with much of the content, because i am not convinced that this should be considered at a european union level.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding resolution. ukip remains gravely concerned by the ongoing conflict in syria and is fully supportive of efforts to create a lasting and peaceful political solution. however, we cannot support eu posturing on foreign policy issues or any calls for eu action. the united nations, primarily the security council, remains the most relevant forum for achieving a lasting solution. therefore we abstained on this resolution.
in writing. – this is a non-legislative and non-binding resolution. ukip remains gravely concerned by the ongoing conflict in syria and is fully supportive of efforts to create a lasting and peaceful political solution. however, we cannot support eu posturing on foreign policy issues or any calls for eu action. the united nations, primarily the security council, remains the most relevant forum for achieving a lasting solution. therefore we abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that war crimes in aleppo require urgent action, and my constituents in wales demand no less. we have all seen the horrific images of attacks on hospitals, homes and even aid convoys. the eu must do everything possible to provide humanitarian aid and also use its influence internationally to bring these attacks to an end. there must be a return to the negotiating table.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding resolution. ukip remains gravely concerned by the ongoing conflict in syria and is fully supportive of efforts to create a lasting and peaceful political solution. however, we cannot support eu posturing on foreign policy issues or any calls for eu action. the united nations, primarily the security council, remains the most relevant forum for achieving a lasting solution. therefore we abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution as it demands an immediate cessation of hostilities, including the indiscriminate bombing of the civilians, and calls for the unhindered delivery of humanitarian aid to all those in need as well as the re-launch of political negotiations with the aim of ending the war, in accordance with un security council resolution 2254.
in writing. – this is a non-legislative and non-binding resolution. ukip remains gravely concerned by the ongoing conflict in syria and is fully supportive of efforts to create a lasting and peaceful political solution. however, we cannot support eu posturing on foreign policy issues or any calls for eu action. the united nations, primarily the security council, remains the most relevant forum for achieving a lasting solution. therefore we abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution as it demands an immediate cessation of hostilities and indiscriminate bombings of the civilians, to ensure an unhindered delivery of humanitarian aid to all those in need and re-launch of political negotiations with the aim to put an end to the war in accordance with the unsc resolution 2254.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding resolution. ukip remains gravely concerned by the ongoing conflict in syria and is fully supportive of efforts to create a lasting and peaceful political solution. however, we cannot support eu posturing on foreign policy issues or any calls for eu action. the united nations, primarily the security council, remains the most relevant forum for achieving a lasting solution. therefore we abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative and non-binding resolution. ukip remains gravely concerned by the ongoing conflict in syria and is fully supportive of efforts to create a lasting and peaceful political solution. however, we cannot support eu posturing on foreign policy issues or any calls for eu action. the united nations, primarily the security council, remains the most relevant forum for achieving a lasting solution. therefore we abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the european parliament resolution on syria. it strongly condemns all crimes committed against the civilian population of syria, urges all parties to the conflict to stop all attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, and calls for the eu to ensure greater international support for the increased numbers of refugees.
in writing. ‒ i condemn and deplore the recent attacks on civilians and humanitarian convoys in syria, in particular the devastating bombardment of aleppo. i have been working on the syria case since 2013, prior to my election, when i was an oxfam volunteer. the international community must do more to bring all parties to the conflict around the table, in order for ceasefires to be agreed and for more humanitarian aid to be provided to those suffering in the war.
mr president, this week we have shown that the european union can act quickly and decisively on climate change. by ratifying the paris agreement in less than a year from its negotiation, we have shown that we can unite to take assertive action. with the next round of global climate talks rapidly approaching, this is no time for us to sit on our laurels – the world cannot wait and neither should we. we must put in place policies that limit the rise in global average temperatures to no more than 1.5° celsius, while allowing a just transition which provides working people and their communities with high-quality jobs and produces sustainable growth for our economies. with today's resolution, which i wholeheartedly support, we have sent out a clear message to the negotiators in the upcoming talks. all economic sectors, all industries and all peoples have their role to play. there can be no more excuses; now is the time for action.
in writing. – we in ukip are against this resolution because we object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies. they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. – i abstained on this report. whilst the report contained some positive points on the very important issue of climate change, it also sees the much derided concept of emissions trading as an important tool in the future of fighting climate change. in europe, the eu’s own emissions trading scheme is widely accepted as being a very costly failure for eu climate change policy which has not brought the significant emissions reductions required and indeed promised. the eu ets has not been cost-effective and has subsidised polluters with taxpayers’ money with its oversupply of allowances to power companies, many of which are being given ‘free’ to these companies.
in writing. ‒ whilst i support appropriate improved environmental standards, and specifically appropriate research and development, i cannot support the totality of this report - and believe that it should be for the uk, not the eu, to decide which international agreements we sign up to.
in writing. – we in ukip are against this resolution because we object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies. they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco, cop22. the resolution puts forward the european parliament’s position for the cop22 conference this november. it is ambitious, but does not go as far as to call for specific numbers on emissions to make the ep’s position even more progressive. climate change is the greatest threat facing us today, and we in wales need to do all we can to protect the planet and ensure the well-being of future generations.
in writing. ‒ i am against this resolution because i object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies. i believe they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as it aims to define the position of the european parliament in view of the cop22 climate conference this november in marrakesh, morocco. the draft resolution addresses issues such as the urgency to ratify and implement the paris agreement, the pre-2020 ambition and the kyoto protocol, the priority negotiation points in cop22, the role of non-state actors, the comprehensive effort of all sectors, the reduction of non-co2 emissions, climate finance, climate resilience through adaptation, climate diplomacy, etc.
in writing. – we in ukip are against this resolution because we object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies. they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as it aims to define the position of the european parliament in view of the cop22 climate conference this november in marrakesh, morocco. the draft resolution addresses issues such as the urgency to ratify and implement the paris agreement, the pre-2020 ambition and the kyoto protocol, the priority negotiation points in cop22, the role of non-state actors, the comprehensive effort of all sectors, the reduction of non-co2 emissions, climate finance, climate resilience through adaptation, climate diplomacy, etc.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are against this resolution because we object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies. they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are against this resolution because we object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies. they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco (cop22). parliament believes that negotiations should advance on the key elements of the paris agreement such as the enhanced transparency framework and stresses the urgency of ratifying and implementing the paris agreement.
in writing. ‒ we must build on the momentum built up at cop21, and work towards implementation and ever more ambitious targets. this is extremely important given recent reports that the world has now passed the threshold of 400 ppm of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. eu member states must do all they can to drastically reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. – we in ukip believe that the safety of food contact materials must be seriously evaluated as chemicals can easily migrate from the materials into food. however, member states should be free to adopt specific measures at national level so that fcms can comply with good manufacturing practices.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report dealing with food contact materials, which mainly means food packaging (but can also refer to food utensils or factories where food is made), and eu regulation or lack thereof covering these products. currently only 4 out of 17 of the fcms identified for measures are actually regulated, which means there are a lot of packaging substances, e.g. printing ink, paper, metal, adhesives and varnishes, which are not covered. there is increasing concern regarding the migration of chemicals from food contact materials into the food we eat. this can be exacerbated by various factors including the length of time packaging has contact with the food, the ratio of surface area of food to the material, whether the product is heated, and whether the foods are surrounded by liquids or high-fat substances. this report calls on the commission to close the gaps and bring in measures to cover the 13 untouched fcms and points out that the current system of authorisation does not take into account the effects of low-dose exposure to chemicals migrating from fcms. this is particularly of concern for vulnerable groups such as babies or infants.
in writing. ‒ i believe that member states must be free to adopt specific measures at national level for all kinds of food contact materials.
in writing. – we in ukip believe that the safety of food contact materials must be seriously evaluated as chemicals can easily migrate from the materials into food. however, member states should be free to adopt specific measures at national level so that fcms can comply with good manufacturing practices.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the safety of food contact materials must be seriously evaluated as chemicals can easily migrate from the materials into food. however, member states should be free to adopt specific measures at national level so that fcms can comply with good manufacturing practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it calls for stronger rules to protect consumers from harmful substances in food packaging.
in writing. – we in ukip believe that the safety of food contact materials must be seriously evaluated as chemicals can easily migrate from the materials into food. however, member states should be free to adopt specific measures at national level so that fcms can comply with good manufacturing practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it calls for stronger rules to protect consumers from harmful substances in food packaging.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that the safety of food contact materials must be seriously evaluated as chemicals can easily migrate from the materials into food. however, member states should be free to adopt specific measures at national level so that fcms can comply with good manufacturing practices.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip believe that the safety of food contact materials must be seriously evaluated as chemicals can easily migrate from the materials into food. however, member states should be free to adopt specific measures at national level so that fcms can comply with good manufacturing practices.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted for the implementation of the food contact materials regulation, the regulation sets out general safety requirements that are applicable to all possible food contact materials. depending on their composition and properties, different materials may behave differently and potentially transfer chemicals which may endanger human health.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s common internal market rules allow us to trade easily and freely across borders, while keeping consumers safe, and setting common standards to protect our health. this report is one such example. in this report, labour meps join their colleagues in calling for stronger rules to protect consumers from harmful substances in food packaging.
in writing. – the recommendation was to vote against this. the report did not go as far as we would like in identifying enough effort being demonstrated to increase transparency, but it was heading in the right direction. one of ukip’s missions is to ensure that transparency is at the forefront of the operations of the eu institutions. furthermore this report calls for more implementation of eu law.
in writing. ‒ i was particularly pleased to vote in favour of this resolution because this year it puts renewed pressure on the commission to fulfil its obligations to help ensure that european union law is correctly implemented. vital citizens’ rights in the areas of environment, transport, health and consumer protection, which i have prioritised in my work, are again the subject of the majority of new infringement cases. members of the public, businesses and campaigning organisations have reported even more concerns about the application of eu law than in previous years, and it is extremely important for justice and democracy that action is taken to address their complaints.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which sets out the application of eu law in the member states for the year 2014. the main focus of the report is the fact that there has been a general decrease in the number of formal infringement proceedings, due to the new pilot procedure which allows the commission to open dialogue with member states before taking official proceedings. this is a good process, which allows member states to explain or rationalise legislative choices they make when transposing eu law. it means there are fewer instances of the commission imposing on countries’ sovereign right to choose how to implement new rules.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the grounds that, whilst i do not support the european union, i do support transparency.
in writing. – the recommendation was to vote against this. the report did not go as far as we would like in identifying enough effort being demonstrated to increase transparency, but it was heading in the right direction. one of ukip’s missions is to ensure that transparency is at the forefront of the operations of the eu institutions. furthermore this report calls for more implementation of eu law.
in writing. ‒ the report did not go as far as i would have liked in identifying enough effort being demonstrated to increase transparency, but it was heading in the right direction. one of ukip’s missions is to ensure that transparency is at the forefront of the operations of the eu institutions. furthermore this report calls for more implementation of eu law.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the 2014 annual report on monitoring the application of eu law. the report expresses concern about the commission’s democratic deficit and stresses the importance of parliamentary involvement and democratic oversight. it also calls for better oversight of the commission’s infringement and pre-infringement procedures.
in writing. – the recommendation was to vote against this. the report did not go as far as we would like in identifying enough effort being demonstrated to increase transparency, but it was heading in the right direction. one of ukip’s missions is to ensure that transparency is at the forefront of the operations of the eu institutions. furthermore this report calls for more implementation of eu law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it expresses concern about the democratic deficit of the commission, pointing out the importance of parliamentary involvement and democratic oversight.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation was to vote against this. the report did not go as far as we would like in identifying enough effort being demonstrated to increase transparency, but it was heading in the right direction. one of ukip’s missions is to ensure that transparency is at the forefront of the operations of the eu institutions. furthermore this report calls for more implementation of eu law.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation was to vote against this. the report did not go as far as we would like in identifying enough effort being demonstrated to increase transparency, but it was heading in the right direction. one of ukip’s missions is to ensure that transparency is at the forefront of the operations of the eu institutions. furthermore this report calls for more implementation of eu law.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report on monitoring the application of eu law. the report expresses concern about the democratic deficit of the commission and stresses the importance of parliamentary involvement and democratic oversight. it also calls for better oversight of the commission’s infringement and pre-infringement procedures.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this gmo authorisation objection. it is absurd that the european commission continues to propose authorisations of gmos under a system which they themselves have admitted is flawed. it is essential that mr juncker listens to the european parliament’s call for a new proposal and that the eu gmo authorisation procedure is overhauled completely.
in writing. ‒ given that i have no specialist knowledge of the seeds concerned, and having concerns about the use of delegated acts, i felt it appropriate to follow the advice of officials and abstain on this matter.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds because the current legal framework for authorising gmos is not democratic. decisions are made by the commission without the agreement of the member states. i represent wales, which has declared itself gm-free, and i want that decision to be respected.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned about the safety of gmos and their impact on health and the environment, but i would prefer the uk government to legislate on this delicate issue, rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 against the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to a pose danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to a pose danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted against a ban on pest-resistant maize as we agree with efsa's assessment that they are unlikely to pose risks to human, animal health or the environment, while limiting the need for use of pesticides. moreover, the commission attached stringent conditions for use of these gmos in their authorisation decisions. i continue to take the issue of gmos with the utmost seriousness, and will continue to oppose gmo use that is deemed harmful or potentially dangerous.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this gmo authorisation objection. it is absurd that the european commission continues to propose authorisations of gmos under a system which they themselves have admitted is flawed. it is essential that mr juncker listens to the european parliament’s call for a new proposal and that the eu gmo authorisation procedure is overhauled completely.
in writing. ‒ given that i have no specialist knowledge of the seeds concerned, and having concerns about the use of delegated acts, i felt it appropriate to follow the advice of officials and abstain on this matter.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize 1507 seeds because the current legal framework for authorising gmos is not democratic. decisions are made by the commission without the agreement of the member states. i represent wales, which has declared itself gm-free, and i want that decision to be respected.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned about the safety of gmos and their impact on health and the environment, but i would prefer the uk government to legislate on this delicate issue, rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize 1507 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to pose a danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize 1507 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to pose a danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted against a ban on pest-resistant maize as we agree with efsa's assessment that they are unlikely to pose risks to human, animal health or the environment, while limiting the need for use of pesticides. moreover, the commission attached stringent conditions for use of these gmos in their authorisation decisions. i continue to take the issue of gmos with the utmost seriousness, and will continue to oppose gmo use that is deemed harmful or potentially dangerous.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this gmo authorisation objection. it is absurd that the european commission continues to propose authorisations of gmos under a system which they themselves have admitted is flawed. it is essential that mr juncker listens to the european parliament’s call for a new proposal and that the eu gmo authorisation procedure is overhauled completely.
in writing. ‒ given that i have no specialist knowledge of the seeds concerned, and having concerns about the use of delegated acts, i felt it appropriate to follow the advice of officials and abstain on this matter.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to the authorisation of monsanto gmo maize mon810 seeds because the current legal framework for authorising gmos is not democratic. decisions are made by the commission without the agreement of the member states. i represent wales, which has declared itself gm-free, and i want that decision to be respected.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned about the safety of gmos and their impact on health and the environment, but i would prefer the uk government to legislate on this delicate issue, rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to pose a danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to pose a danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted against a ban on pest-resistant maize as we agree with efsa's assessment that they are unlikely to pose risks to human, animal health or the environment, while limiting the need for use of pesticides. moreover, the commission attached stringent conditions for use of these gmos in their authorisation decisions. i continue to take the issue of gmos with the utmost seriousness, and will continue to oppose gmo use that is deemed harmful or potentially dangerous.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this gmo authorisation objection. it is absurd that the european commission continues to propose authorisations of gmos under a system which they themselves have admitted is flawed. it is essential that mr juncker listens to the european parliament’s call for a new proposal and that the eu gmo authorisation procedure is overhauled completely.
in writing. ‒ given that i have no specialist knowledge of the seeds concerned, and having concerns about the use of delegated acts, i felt it appropriate to follow the advice of officials and abstain on this matter.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to the authorisation of monsanto gmo maize mon810 products because the current legal framework for authorising gmos is not democratic. decisions are made by the commission without the agreement of the member states. i represent wales, which has declared itself gm-free, and i want that decision to be respected.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned about the safety of gmos and their impact on health and the environment, but i would prefer the uk government to legislate on this delicate issue, rather than the european parliament.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 products, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to pose a danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted against a ban on pest-resistant maize as we agree with efsa's assessment that they are unlikely to pose risks to human, animal health or the environment, while limiting the need for use of pesticides. moreover, the commission attached stringent conditions for use of these gmos in their authorisation decisions. i continue to take the issue of gmos with the utmost seriousness, and will continue to oppose gmo use that is deemed harmful or potentially dangerous.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this gmo authorisation objection. it is absurd that the european commission continues to propose authorisations of gmos under a system which they themselves have admitted is flawed. it is essential that mr juncker listens to the european parliament’s call for a new proposal and that the eu gmo authorisation procedure is overhauled completely.
in writing. ‒ given that i have no specialist knowledge of the seeds concerned, and having concerns about the use of delegated acts, i felt it appropriate to follow the advice of officials and abstain on this matter.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to the authorisation of genetically modified cotton because the current legal framework for authorising gmos is not democratic. decisions are made by the commission without the agreement of the member states. i represent wales, which has declared itself gm-free, and i want that decision to be respected.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned about the safety of gmos and their impact on health and the environment, but i would prefer the uk government to legislate on this delicate issue, rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 as the authorisation of gmos resistant to herbicides is likely to result in excessive herbicide spraying. it is important to ensure that the eu regulatory framework with regards to gmos is further improved, particularly in terms of assessing gmos’ impacts on the wider environment as well as on human health
in writing. – we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913, as the authorisation of gmos resistant to herbicides is likely to result in excessive herbicide spraying. it is important to ensure that the eu regulatory framework with regards to gmos is further improved, particularly in terms of assessing gmos’ impacts on the wider environment as well as on human health.
in writing. ‒ in these votes on gmo objection motions, labour meps have exemplified their case-by-case approach to gm technology, while adhering strictly to the principles of robust risk assessment, the precautionary principle and the authority of efsa, and acting pragmatically with regard to biotechnology which is already strongly present in our food chain. my colleagues and i thus vote against the introduction of gmos resistant to herbicides.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, now that eu has ratified the paris agreement, we have a tremendous challenge to decarbonise our economy, but also a tremendous opportunity. humanity’s journey into the fossil fuel era was marked by the enclosure of common resources, monopoly control and the growth in inequality. finding ways to develop and invest in renewable resources offers a wonderful opportunity to do things differently. this is why, as greens, we believe that sustainable finance must also be equitable finance. the overwhelming majority of finance for the green transition so far is private finance. through the creation of green bonds, bankers can make use of what financiers like to call ‘the magic of money’ to multiply an initial stock of capital many times over, with the value of this multiplication staying with the shareholders and employees of the bank. so the need to invest in a sustainable future could be used to swell bank profits, exacerbating inequality. how much better it would be if the magic of money could be used for the benefit of the citizens of the world, if we funded the transition through public banking and through community ownership. then the value of money creation could be invested for public good and the value of renewable energy could accrue to local communities. the german kfw bank provides an excellent model of such a method of capturing the power of banking for public good and i think such a model should be at the heart of sustainable finance. i have also championed the idea of green quantitative easing to ensure that some of the vast amount of money being created by the european central bank should be channelled towards green investments. i believe the commission and parliament need to work together to undertake a critical review of the impact of the current qe programme and find ways to ensure that it is redesigned to play a central role in the financing of the green economy in europe. for some time greens in this house have been ringing the alarm bell about the systemic risk to financial services, products and companies from assets which are grossly overvalued in the context of the eu’s policies to tackle climate change. since at least 75% of fossil fuel reserves have to be kept in the ground if we are to keep within the 2° global warming limit agreed in paris, companies, banks and pension funds that have significant fossil—related assets on their books are vastly overvalued, a phenomenon known as the carbon bubble. mckinsey and others have estimated that 30% to 40% of fossil fuel companies’ value could be threatened by this carbon bubble. mark carney, governor of the bank of england, has responded to this alert, as has mario draghi, as evidenced in the report produced by the european systemic risk board. we have taken an important first step to tackle the carbon bubble in the specific case of pensions, as was mentioned by the commissioner. the parliament has voted that the extent of these stranded assets must be notified to the regulatory authorities, but we should not stop there. it is not only pensions that are at risk. insurance companies are also holding large quantities of stranded assets. both the european systemic risk board (esrb) and the ecofin council have discussed the idea of undertaking carbon stress tests for banks and we need to make urgent progress on that front. we should also consider other options put forward by the esrb, such as regulatory loss absorbency requirements, specific capital surcharges based on the carbon intensity of individual exposure, and large exposure limits applied to the overall investment in assets deemed highly vulnerable. we can also learn from others. france, for example, has introduced the world’s first mandatory climate disclosure requirements for institutional investors and the us securities and exchange commission is now also taking steps towards mandatory disclosure requirements. the european commission should make a proposal for similar legislation eu wide. these are just some of the actions governments and central banks are taking to address the risks posed by the carbon bubble. the eu needs to take similar action and, in this context, we welcome your proposal for a sustainable finance expert group. since the private finance market will inevitably play an important role in financing the transition, it is important that it is properly regulated and focused. the eu is proud of its leadership role on climate change, but is falling behind on the issue of sustainable finance. london has launched a green finance initiative and luxembourg has followed suit, as has france. china is working on green finance, as is bangladesh. there is a veritable climate finance race going on, with countries vying to be the first to turn their capital markets the greenest the fastest, investing in climate solutions instead of climate problems. the eu should set the highest standards in this field. in particular, we should introduce clear criteria for what constitutes a green bond. at present this is something of a wild west, with bonds claiming green status on the flimsiest of justifications. vice—president dombrovskis, we are pleased to see progress on this important issue since the departure of commissioner hill, but time is also pressing. international developments are moving fast, from the g20 green finance study group to the fsb climate disclosure task force. we should ensure that we are part of these developments, which is why it is so important that you move rapidly to establish your expert group and the publication of an eu sustainable finance strategy should not be far behind. this will give us enough time to come forward with timely legislative proposals. so we welcome this opportunity to debate the economic opportunities offered by the urgent need to transition to more sustainable industrial and energy systems. we urge that the needs of climate and environment are placed first when sustainable finance is being developed and that attention is paid to the opportunities to achieve greater equity alongside greater sustainability.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank the shadows but also particularly kaja kallas for her efforts to try and shape a better and more viable proposal. i know she has put a lot of work in and she has made the proposal better, especially in areas where it was inflexible and legally indefensible, like the presumption of innocence. however, despite her efforts, the ecr cannot support it. the proposal seeks to do two things. one: to set a common approach for defining what a customs infringement is; two: to set common sanctions for those infringements. now my group can see the benefit of a common understanding and the need to reduce the complexity of different customs rules, but we disagree that this necessitates a mandatory set of harmonised union sanctions. this is a major infringement on subsidiarity, especially as there is little justification for such a move. i have yet to see a viable reason for the proposal. there is no evidence that importers calculate which member state is the least onerous in terms of sanctions before they import into it. even parliament’s research services’ appraisal of the commission impact assessment was unable to find any evidence of this. however, when we look at the details of the proposal they are even more problematic. the commission wants to treat a small or medium-sized company, or a home business, with no experience of customs rules, that accidently infringes those rules just as harshly as a multinational corporation with decades of knowledge and hundreds of staff. that is wrong. it risks killing the rapidly growing online cross-border trade and runs directly contrary to the commission’s aims in creating the digital single market. at its heart, the original proposal was too prescriptive and inflexible, giving customs regimes no room to use common sense and to examine intent and capabilities when assessing infringement. this should be up to the member states. now on customs sanctions, my group cannot therefore agree with the rapporteur where she has gone beyond the commission in some respects, particularly in articles 11 and 12, with specific figures for specific infringements. however, to conclude: greater consistency of custom rules for ease of trade, yes; prescriptive one-size-fits-all sanctions that infringe national sovereignty and member states’ legal systems and risk killing the digital single market, no, and therefore the ecr group cannot support it.
madam president, britain and other nations suffer from the restrictions imposed by the customs union. as a member in our current standing britain is unable to make its own trade deals and has to rely on unelected bureaucrats to negotiate on behalf of the whole of europe. just look at how this has worked out. ttip is over, and ceta is on the rocks, with years and years of negotiating and nothing to show for it. yet we hear scare stories from some who seem willing to make economic sacrifices to spite the will of the british people. may i remind those people that the impact which this could have on the eu and its businesses is enormous. in fact, experts have said that a failure by the eu to successfully negotiate a free trade deal with britain could cost european union exporters up to 13 billion a year. amongst the doom and gloom, however, is an exciting future for britain. since the vote our government has begun informal trade talks with prospering nations from around the world including australia, new zealand, india and many many more. this is britain’s chance to set a future precedent for other nations who are also considering leaving the european union – free trade, cooperation without the necessity of a political union.
rapporteur. – madam president, the iran nuclear agreement was a big achievement for european and international diplomacy. it is an important signal that nuclear non-proliferation is possible in our world. the eu strategy which followed, fully supported by my report, is about europe fully upholding our obligations under that agreement. to do so, i support the opening of an eu delegation in tehran and cooperation on maritime security in the persian gulf as a concrete step towards a new regional security structure for the whole region; setting the aim for a partnership and cooperation agreement for a bilateral investment treaty and of iran joining the world trade organisation. supporting the major deal for airbus and efforts for banks themselves to support the lifting of sanctions; to restore our own interparliamentary dialogue with the majlis. colleagues, this is a balanced and inclusive report incorporating 22 compromise paragraphs from no less than 139 amendments from different members of this parliament. i thank the shadows, and mr brok in particular, for their cooperation. on human rights: the human rights ngo reprieve called the language of my report ‘excellent’. human rights watch said: it is ‘good language’. the words ‘human rights’ actually appears 34 times in my report. by focusing on ending the death penalty for children and for all drug offenses i am supporting efforts which are already under way in iranian society itself and that i dearly hope will actually be agreed. those who say that my report ‘is not human rights enough’ simply impugn my own integrity and contradict the human rights organisations themselves. they knowingly imperil the leverage that we do have with iran and make the improvements in human rights, which they say you want, less, not more, likely. they should examine your own conscience before you repeat that claim. my report clearly called for non-interference in other countries and an end to support for armed groups. it specifically supports respect for peace and security for israel and for palestinians. it suggests that europe can play a greater role in de-escalating tension between tehran and riyadh, and that this is the essential part of bringing to an end the terrible conflicts which afflict iran’s neighbours. there are those in this chamber who want greater one-sided criticism of iran’s regional role. they say they are against proxy wars but you yourselves are acting as proxies; don’t do it. for those that are using this debate to wage these arguments, but who do so actually seeking to oppose the nuclear agreement: be honest in saying so. i will be honest with you about the consequences of the agreement’s collapse: a nuclear arms race in the middle east, heightened security fears, undermining reformists and shifting power to hardliners here and there, a return to sanctions in which ordinary innocent people in iran are impoverished and lose hope, a potentially fatal attack on diplomatic attempts to end suffering, death and destruction in the bloody civil wars in syria and in yemen. indeed, an attack on the very principle that diplomacy and negotiated agreement itself could be successful in our troubled world. my report stands for peace, an active diplomatic role for europe, and a belief that by identifying common interest where it exists, that it is possible to build on it. i ask for your support.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, reaching an agreement with iran last summer regarding its nuclear ambitions was a major diplomatic success for the european union and us foreign—policy interests. the combined sanctions regime proved very effective in putting pressure on the economy and resulted in bringing the tehran regime, and its electorate, to the conclusion that the country needed to reform and a government that was willing to be able to engage with the west and negotiate a deal. the iranian government is not one that we in europe share common values with. i too condemn its atrocious human rights abuses, including internationally banned juvenile executions, its sectarian politics, its development of a ballistic missile system, its interventionist regional policies in syria, yemen, bahrain and lebanon that are often counterproductive. these are differences that we should and will continue to voice our disapproval of and to argue that the peoples of iran deserve and are capable of better. such concerns, however, should not dictate a policy of total disengagement. the negotiations were a final attempt to prevent iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, and in turn hastening an inevitable nuclear arms race in the persian gulf region, without the use of force. many have argued that a military solution was, and remains, the one and only solution in the long term. the military experts have made it clear that such a policy would be hugely difficult to achieve without paying a huge personal price. this is nothing to say of the subsequent fallout which, i have no doubt, would be very damaging politically in an already volatile region. this deal is only welcomed as a pragmatic one and its rejection would play right into the hands of regime hardliners. it does not mean that we have reached the end of the road. close scrutiny that the terms are being adhered to and the will to reimpose sanctions at the slightest of violations are of utmost importance. it is unknown where this deal will take us over the next decade but i personally remain hopeful that it can build trust and allow time for a new political landscape to develop from that ancient persian culture and to emerge from that. i too would like to take this opportunity to extend my thanks to richard howitt. we come from very different political families, we have disagreed on many things, richard, over many years, but i too would like to wish you luck in the next chapter of your life.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the iranian nuclear agreement represented possibly one of the biggest shifts in western—middle eastern relations for decades. whilst the full repercussions of the nuclear agreement, as well as whether all sides can stick to it, remain to be seen, what is beyond doubt is that the agreement gives us further grounds to continue dialogue and continue building up mutual trust and respect. if this is to prove fruitful, it must be done through existing international institutions and multilateral and bilateral dialogue. in this report, however, i must especially question its aim of an eu strategy. once again the eu is showing its immaturity when it comes to diplomacy. i believe that the too much, too quickly approach taken in this report may actually prove to be counterproductive in the long term. as we all know, trust can take decades to build but be broken far more quickly. i believe that the comments in this report on syria are pointless. middle eastern diplomacy is – to make an obvious understatement – complex, with the multifaceted interests of major players globally and regionally. all parties represent legitimate national concerns, and it is only by coming to a reasonable accommodation that a lasting peace can be found. in short, i would suggest that we build slowly on the success of the dialogue before the nuclear deal. let us agree where we can agree and agree to discuss differences where we can. however, whilst my own concerns over the iranian stance towards israel remain relevant and topical in this context, let us not pressure iran with an all-encompassing agreement that we know would be doomed to failure. for once let us stop posturing and see if we can actually bring some stability to the region. i would also like to pay tribute to richard. richard, you and i disagree on pretty much everything, but i think that the foreign affairs committee will be a different place without you, certainly from a british viewpoint. i wish you all the very best for your future outside parliament.
madam president, the presence of nuclear weapons makes this world an unnecessarily dangerous and volatile place. the eu’s strategies towards iran should adhere to this basic concept. iran stands as an example of how, ostracised by the international community, sanction states are driven away from international cooperation into a cave of isolationism. despite this, and unlike israel, iran became a signatory to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. the sheer duplicity of nuclear-armed western states criticising iran for pursuing such objectives, while they sit on stockpiles of nuclear armaments capable of obliterating the earth several times over, would be comical if it was not so repulsive and dangerous. of course, the most vocal opponent of iran’s nuclear ambition was israel; a nation with a non-declared stockpile of nuclear weapons, some of which it tried to sell to apartheid south africa. all states in all regions should encourage and advance nuclear disarmament. the eu and iran should ensure the terms of the agreement are fulfilled and all eu member states should also begin unilateral nuclear disarmament and encourage non-eu nuclear-armed states to do likewise. sinn féin, for our part, will ensure that we promote universal nuclear disarmament as a means to remove these immoral, military, useless and potentially armageddon—creating weapons. to this end we will work to uphold ireland’s neutrality and to oppose the british government’s drive to renew its trident weapons of mass destruction. i also want to acknowledge the work of richard howitt and to wish him well in the future.
mr president, colleagues, tomorrow, 25 october, will be the second anniversary of the death of reyhaneh jabbari, executed for defending herself against sexual assault by an agent of the iranian regime when she was 19 years old. we mourn her still, and so in her name i urge the eu external action service to set out a clear human rights framework as part of the eu’s engagement with the iranian government going forward from this report. there must be a human rights impact assessment, benchmarks and a framework for monitoring and evaluation. this must cover ongoing human rights violations such as the use of torture, the imprisonment of political activists and human rights defenders, and the need to prohibit the execution of children and work towards the elimination of the death penalty. real progress must be made on women’s rights and the criminalisation of gender-based violence, such as acid attacks on women. the external action service must engage constructively with the iranian authorities on human rights, put them at the core of the process and strive to achieve meaningful progress for people on the ground. finally, i would like to call on the iranian government to free the anglo-iranian mother nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, who has been imprisoned and detained since april this year.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank mr brok, mr tannock, mr carver, ms anderson, mr castaldo, mr lewandowski, mr mamikins, mr cofferati, mr kelly and mr caputo for their very kind words. i appreciate it. thank you to mr buchner and others who have mentioned the issue of dual nationals. i have myself met the relatives of mr foroughi and ms zaghari-ratcliffe and we do call for their – and others’ – release in paragraph 47. i have not engaged with the far right in 22 years and i will not start debating with them now, but i do take the questions from ppe and alde colleagues seriously. to my friends in the alde group and with greatest respect to ms schaake, you say you support the nuclear agreement and the high representative, yet you submit amendments that you know will undermine it. you have even rejected the compromise that i have offered you on the holocaust, and you should think again about that. you say that my report is lacking on human rights and on ending support for hezbollah. there are 34 references to human rights. in reality, is there any number which would be high enough for you? ending support for hezbollah is there in paragraph 34. you cite free and fair elections, the justice system and the treatment of women, yet it is all there: paragraphs 39, 46 and 49. the truth is that i believe you are against the agreement and, if your group votes against the report, i have to say that i believe it is you who are being illiberal, not me. to mr preda, my report is strictly balanced in seeking to reject sectarianism and to support reconciliation between tehran and riyadh. for you to suggest that my group is itself sectarian is beneath you. as fellow direct colleagues in this parliament’s subcommittee on human rights, you know that i support human rights benchmarks, but choose to say otherwise. look at my support for a return to a human rights dialogue and also for assessing investment according to the un guiding principles on business and human rights. when mr adaktusson says that my original draft did not have human rights at all – it is just wholly false. i have asked you to examine your consciences and you should do so before saying that. to mr belder, sovereignty for israel as well as other countries in the middle east is there – in paragraphs 34 and 35 – and you should remember that i personally was author of the written declaration on responsibility for the holocaust. to many members, i am interested in how often the words ‘propaganda for a theocratic regime’ have been repeated across this debate. it does point to the lobbying interest behind many of the criticisms aired. to my friend, ms ries, the step-by-step process i describe in paragraph 4 is hardly what you called normalisation. mr kelam paid me a compliment, for which i thank him, but he and others who referred to isis-daesh must recognise that they are just as much an enemy of iran as to us. to mr ruas and all who referred to the death penalty, i reiterate that my report clearly states that iran has the highest per capita execution rate, that we oppose the death penalty and call for an immediate moratorium. i understand that you want to be associated with these calls, but this report hardly needs amendment to achieve them. finally, i remember sitting in an embassy of a member state in the middle east, being told that the bombing of iran was more likely than not. another middle east war with all the consequences. european diplomacy has helped avert that terrible fate and we should be very careful in this parliament about acting irresponsibly in a way that could jeopardise it.
mr president, 10 000 migrant children are missing in europe, say europol. many are in the hands of criminal gangs and traffickers, and it is the free movement of people that facilitates victims being moved across borders. much more needs to be done and, of course, ukip wants to help the vulnerable children at risk in calais. but the pictures we initially saw of very mature—looking adults being brought into britain really shows how little the tories care about public feeling towards open—door immigration. was it too much to ask to bring in actual young girls and boys, to help them and to reassure the british public? clearly, the british prime minister does not want to control immigration or to have proper checks. last year, a government report stated that nearly 100 000 children in the uk were in temporary housing after being made homeless. the tories should put the needs of our own children first before opening the door to the rest of the world. only ukip will get control of our borders in a fair and ethical way.
mr president, there is one thing for sure after today’s downing street meeting: there is nothing united about the kingdom. it is potentially breaking up from inside out. the good friday agreement was voted overwhelmingly by 90% of the people of ireland in two referendums. the irish government repealed articles 2 and 3 of its constitution, letting go of its territorial right to the north of ireland, and the british government fully repealed the government of ireland act, which was the act that had partitioned ireland. as co-guarantors of the good friday agreement, the two member states – the two governments – built into the good friday agreement the principle of consent. well, the people in the north of ireland did not give their consent to be dragged out of the eu. fifty-six percent of the people voted to remain and the british government is telling us that is going to lead the process of negotiations, that it will be between it and the eu and no one else, and the rest of us will do as we are bid. i don’t think so, theresa! what we are saying to the eu is that you have invested politically, financially and economically into the peace process in the north of ireland; do not abandon the people of the north of ireland or the peace process.
mr president, i have just returned from a fact-finding mission in turkish kurdistan where i talked to communities living in a climate of fear and repression in diyarbakir, mardin and on the border with syria. i saw the terrible state—sponsored destruction of the historic district of sur, where dozens of young kurds burned to death in basements. i talked to bereaved mothers in nusaybin whose sons and daughters had perished because of the state’s attacks on its own citizens, their bodies torn apart, impossible to identify. many are still missing. i met the distraught families of teachers whose loved ones have been sacked, intimidated and imprisoned for attending union meetings. i met democratically elected politicians – many of them women like myself – but who have been stripped of office due to trumped up charges because of their kurdish identity and their political affiliation. i met yazidi refugees cared for, not by the state, but by the kurdish community, all wondering when the world will remember them. independent media is being silenced and shut down in turkey, and journalists and academics arrested, tried and imprisoned. the country is in the grip of a terrible dictatorial man. erdogan is messing with democracy because he is afraid of democracy. the june elections proved that there is a multiplicity of voices in turkey and many of these belong to diverse ethnic groups and progressive forces. it is time for the eu to recognise the true reality of the turkish state and demand human rights norms for everyone.
madam president, this report calls for an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. it is an own-initiative report – an mep’s wish list. it has no legislative effect; it is just hot air. it was pointless to write and equally pointless to debate. however, britain needs no lessons in democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. britain had a democracy founded on parliamentary government that evolved over 800 years. our democracy was undermined by transferring supremacy of law-making from our parliament to the european union. we had the rule of law – our law – which evolved over a thousand years. the rule of our law was undermined by eu law and the supremacy of the european court of justice. we had fundamental rights, established under such things as magna carta, the common law, habeas corpus and the bill of rights. our rights and freedoms are being destroyed by such things as the european arrest warrant that allows british citizens to be arrested, extradited and imprisoned in corrupt foreign countries merely on the basis of vague accusations without any supporting evidence. if the british people want their democracy, the rule of their law and their fundamental rights back, then we must leave the european union as quickly as possible. brexit means now, not in two and a half years’ time or longer.
madam president, all too often what the eu has in mind is either obscure or opaque, ensuring that the media and member states’ citizens are left in the dark. let us be absolutely clear about what we are talking about this morning. we are talking about a report that seeks to establish a group of so-called independent experts who will monitor member states to ensure that they are upholding the values of eu treaties. seemingly there is nothing wrong with that, but in fact there is – and there is plenty. let me go through what is wrong. there is absolutely no legal nor treaty mandate to establish this mechanism. the eu has therefore absolutely no right even to propose it. thirdly, there is nothing that can be cited to justify or validate such a mechanism, and the timing should make everybody suspicious. call me cynical, but might it just be a knee—jerk reaction to circumstances in poland and hungary – two member states – probably two out of 28 that would like to do much the same – which are, quite rightly, exercising their sovereign right to curtail eu influence and control in the areas of democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights? that is what sovereign nationhood is all about. if the european union really wishes to add more substance to accusations of covert federalism and emerging big brother statehood, then go ahead, but there is absolutely no way anybody who believes in democracy should support this.
in writing. – ukip meps voted against this technically non-legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. – this report provides for the automated exchange of dna data in denmark. it calls for the unnecessary collection and sharing of personal data that is highly invasive, expensive and unwarranted in scope and nature. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this technically non-legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this technically non-legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this technically non-legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this consultation allowing denmark to take part in prüm, for the purpose of automated searching and comparison of dna data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. denmark has run a successful pilot project and fulfilled all the data protection provisions, the commission has evaluated the results and found denmark ready to take part in prüm.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. denmark has run a successful pilot project and fulfilled all the data protection provisions, the commission has evaluated the results and found denmark ready to take part in prüm.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this technically non-legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this technically non-legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. – ukip meps voted against this technically non—legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. – this report provides for the automated exchange of dactyloscopic (fingerprint) data in denmark. it calls for the unnecessary collection and sharing of personal data that is highly invasive, expensive and unwarranted in scope and nature. we therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this technically non-legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this technically non legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this technically non legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. denmark has run a successful pilot project and fulfilled all the data protection provisions, the commission has evaluated the results and found denmark ready to take part in prüm.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. denmark has run a successful pilot project and fulfilled all the data protection provisions, the commission has evaluated the results and found denmark ready to take part in prüm.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this technically non legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this technically non legislative consultation. ukip believe that agreements on data exchange should be made on a bilateral basis by sovereign nations.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against giving consent to this legislative agreement. ukip do not support the eu making agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the issue of migration.
in writing. – this recommendation is to allow a waiver of visas for holders of diplomatic passports from china, allowing them to stay in the eu for short periods without a visa. while these short-term visa waivers can be useful, due to the serious questions raised about china’s human rights record, we voted to abstain. it should be noted that these waivers would only apply to diplomatic passport holders, so they will not affect the ability for the likes of ngos to travel visa free.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against giving consent to this legislative agreement. ukip do not support the eu making agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the issue of migration.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against giving consent to this legislative agreement. ukip do not support the eu making agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the issue of migration.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against giving consent to this legislative agreement. ukip do not support the eu making agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the issue of migration.
in writing. ‒ although i am supportive of an eu-china agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports, the uk does not participate in the schengen area or the visa-free area. it believes that the schengen member states are best placed to determine these policies and therefore i abstained with the rest of the uk delegation.
in writing. ‒ this report ratifies an agreement signed in march 2016, which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the union and for the citizens of china, holders of a valid diplomatic passport or eu laissez-passer, when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour thereof.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is simply ratifying an agreement that was signed in march 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is simply ratifying an agreement that was signed in march 2016.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the union and for the citizens of china, holders of a valid diplomatic passport or eu laissez-passer, when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against giving consent to this legislative agreement. ukip do not support the eu making agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the issue of migration.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against giving consent to this legislative agreement. ukip do not support the eu making agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the issue of migration.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the eu-china agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of china, holders of a valid diplomatic passport or eu laissez-passer, when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. – we voted against this legislative report because we do not feel that british taxpayers’ money should be used to prop up vanity and propaganda projects in europe. we note that the alleged financial difficulties in southern europe that are being used to justify this additional support are largely to blame on the eu and its failing and doomed euro currency. we fail to see how the eu, which created this mess, could possibly solve it.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report, which supports amending the regulation on financial management for member states experiencing serious difficulties with financial stability where this is affecting these countries’ ability to co-fund regional projects. specifically, it addresses temporarily increasing payments under esif programmes for greece and cyprus. this ‘top—up’ doesn’t affect the overall esif allocations in 2014-2020. for greece, because of the ongoing difficulty it is facing with implementing the austerity measures of the ‘economic adjustment programme’, it allows interim payments 10 percent above the co-financing rate for the erdf, esf, cohesion fund, eafrd and emff. while cyprus exited its ‘adjustment programme’ in march, the report also recognises the ongoing fragility of the economy of cyprus, and therefore extends a co-financing rate of 85 percent for all operational programmes supported by the erdf and esf in cyprus until the closure of those programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it makes it easier for the eu to fund struggling eu countries.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this legislative report because we do not feel that british taxpayers’ money should be used to prop up vanity and propaganda projects in europe. we note that the alleged financial difficulties in southern europe that are being used to justify this additional support are largely to blame on the eu and its failing and doomed euro currency. we fail to see how the eu, which created this mess, could possibly solve it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed modifications because the legislation might temporarily increase payment appropriations, which would be offset by lower payments towards the end of the 2014-2020 programmes. there should not be any changes to the multiannual financial framework annual ceilings for commitments and payments, which are set out in annex i to regulation 1311/2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed modifications because the legislation might temporarily increase payment appropriations, which would be offset by lower payments towards the end of the 2014-2020 programmes. there should not be any changes to the multiannual financial framework annual ceilings for commitments and payments, which are set out in the annex i of regulation 1311/2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed modifications because the legislation might temporarily increase payment appropriations, which would be offset by lower payments towards the end of the 2014-2020 programmes. there should not be any changes to the multiannual financial framework annual ceilings for commitments and payments, which are set out in the annex i of regulation 1311/2013.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this legislative report because we do not feel that british taxpayers’ money should be used to prop up vanity and propaganda projects in europe. we note that the alleged financial difficulties in southern europe that are being used to justify this additional support are largely to blame on the eu and its failing and doomed euro currency. we fail to see how the eu, which created this mess, could possibly solve it.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this legislative report because we do not feel that british taxpayers’ money should be used to prop up vanity and propaganda projects in europe. we note that the alleged financial difficulties in southern europe that are being used to justify this additional support are largely to blame on the eu and its failing and doomed euro currency. we fail to see how the eu, which created this mess, could possibly solve it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposed modifications because the legislation might temporarily increase payment appropriations, which would be offset by lower payments towards the end of the 2014-2020 programmes. there should not be any changes to the multiannual financial framework annual ceilings for commitments and payments, which are set out in annex i to regulation 1311/2013.
in writing. – ukip decided to vote to waive the immunity of jean-marie le pen, because the decision made by patrick bruel – who is a french singer and who is jewish – not to perform in a town that has a national front mayor was met by mr le pen with the following comment, ‘that does not surprise me. listen, we’ll put them all in the oven together next time’. mr bruel believes that these words were aimed at ‘the jewish community’, suggesting that some of its members should be eliminated in the same way as had been practised in the nazi regime. it is important to maintain an element of free speech, but this comment is unacceptable.
in writing. – i voted to waive immunity in this instance. the mep in question was recorded making violently anti-semitic remarks in a 2014 video. sinn féin stands against racism and hate speech of any kind. the waiver will allow the national office for vigilance against anti-semitisim in france to bring a case against him.
in writing. ‒ jean-marie le penn is accused of publicly inciting racial hatred. there is no connection between the statement in question and his work as a member of the european parliament and he was therefore not acting in his capacity as an mep.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided to vote to waive the immunity of jean-marie le pen, because the decision made by patrick bruel – who is a french singer and who is jewish – not to perform in a town that has a national front mayor was met by mr le pen with the following comment, ‘that does not surprise me. listen, we’ll put them all in the oven together next time’. mr bruel believes that these words were aimed at ‘the jewish community’, suggesting that some of its members should be eliminated in the same way as had been practised in the nazi regime. it is important to maintain an element of free speech, but this comment is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request to waive immunity as i agree with the reasons set out in the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided to vote to waive the immunity of jean-marie le pen, because the decision made by patrick bruel – who is a french singer and who is jewish – not to perform in a town that has a national front mayor was met by mr le pen with the following comment, ‘that does not surprise me. listen, we’ll put them all in the oven together next time’. mr bruel believes that these words were aimed at ‘the jewish community’, suggesting that some of its members should be eliminated in the same way as had been practised in the nazi regime. it is important to maintain an element of free speech, but this comment is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided to vote to waive the immunity of jean-marie le pen, because the decision made by patrick bruel – who is a french singer and who is jewish – not to perform in a town that has a national front mayor was met by mr le pen with the following comment, ‘that does not surprise me. listen, we’ll put them all in the oven together next time’. mr bruel believes that these words were aimed at ‘the jewish community’, suggesting that some of its members should be eliminated in the same way as had been practised in the nazi regime. it is important to maintain an element of free speech, but this comment is unacceptable.
in writing. – i voted to waive the immunity of this ukip mep, who is accused of making defamatory and libellous statements against three labour mps with regard to an ongoing criminal and administrative inquiry. as the statements were not made in the course of this mep’s parliamentary duties, i voted to waive her immunity so that parties could be given the opportunity to establish the truth and clear their names, if need be by due process of law.
in writing. ‒ my colleague jane collins was acting in her capacity as an mep when raising concerns in relations to child abuse in rotherham. rotherham falls into the european constituency she represents. furthermore it is said that jane collins was not acting in her professional capacity as an mep but was merely a uk parliamentary candidate in the run up to the uk general election in may 2014. this was not the case as she was not selected to stand as a uk parliamentary candidate until january 2015.
in writing. ‒ the immunity of the members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the european union treaties. freedom of speech cannot go beyond these values – for these reasons i voted for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request. the immunity of the members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the european union treaties. hate speech clearly violates these principles and values, and cannot be justified by freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request. the immunity of the members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the european union treaties. hate speech clearly violates these principles and values, and cannot be justified by freedom of expression.
in writing. – ukip decided not to vote on this issue. whilst the words mentioned by mr borghezio were abhorrent, the court of milan has failed to follow due process in staying the proceedings brought against mr borghezio until the vote in plenary has taken place.
in writing. – we voted to waive the immunity of this mep, who made a series of racial slurs following the appointment of a congolese-born minister for integration in italy. it is unacceptable for statements inciting racial or ethnic hatred to be made by anyone, most of all in the public sphere. for these reasons, we voted in favour of waiving immunity.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote for technical legal reasons.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided not to vote on this issue. whilst the words mentioned by mr borghezio were abhorrent, the court of milan has failed to follow due process in staying the proceedings brought against mr borghezio until the vote in plenary has taken place.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request. the immunity of the members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the european union treaties. hate speech clearly violates these principles and values, and cannot be justified by freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided not to vote on this issue. whilst the words mentioned by mr borghezio were abhorrent, the court of milan has failed to follow due process in staying the proceedings brought against mr borghezio until the vote in plenary has taken place.
in writing. ‒ ukip decided not to vote on this issue. whilst the words mentioned by mr borghezio were abhorrent, the court of milan has failed to follow due process in staying the proceedings brought against mr borghezio until the vote in plenary has taken place.
in writing. – ukip voted for the rejection amendment on this legislative motion for a resolution. by the eu’s own admission, the eu has spent millions on the ertms deployment without any concrete results, due to irregular deployment and delays in the deployment. therefore, we cannot allow the eu to put legislation in place and still waste the taxpayers’ money.
in writing. – this is an ordinary legislative procedure, at second reading, amending the existing regulation to update and simplify the existing legal framework for european statistics on rail transport, including increasing the collection of general statistics (not personal data) on the transport of goods and passengers by rail, and on rail safety, and establishing cooperation agreements to this end. this report is a technical part of the fourth railway package, which, as a whole, moves towards a single more competitive, liberalised railway sector and aims to replace national vehicle authorisation and safety authorities with a single european railway agency, among other things. while sinn féin is opposed to the fourth railway package, this change to the regulation deals solely with general statistics that will contribute to safety and transport planning, and we therefore voted to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to reject the european council’s position. by their own admission the eu has spent millions on the ertms deployment without any concrete results due to irregular deployment and delays in the deployment.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for the rejection amendment on this legislative motion for a resolution. by the eu’s own admission, the eu has spent millions on the ertms deployment without any concrete results, due to irregular deployment and delays in the deployment. therefore, we cannot allow the eu to put legislation in place and still waste the taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, which increases the availability of clear and transparent data on the performance of european goods and passenger railway services. such information is vital to ensure continued improvements to safety, accessibility and general performance of rail services across the eu. the new rules will simplify data collection procedures and reduce overlapping between statistical agencies, enhancing the quality of data available without imposing any additional burdens on member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, as it increases the availability of clear and transparent data on the performance of european goods and passenger railway services. such information is vital to ensure continued improvements to safety, accessibility and general performance of rail services across the eu. the new rules will simplify data collection procedures and reduce overlapping between statistical agencies, enhancing the quality of data available without imposing any additional burdens on member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, as it increases the availability of clear and transparent data on the performance of european goods and passenger railway services. such information is vital to ensure continued improvements to safety, accessibility and general performance of rail services across the eu. the new rules will simplify data collection procedures and reduce overlapping between statistical agencies, enhancing the quality of data available without imposing any additional burdens on member states.
in writing. ‒ this regulation increases the availability of clear and transparent data on the performance of european goods and passenger railway services. such information is vital to ensure continued improvements to safety, accessibility and general performance of rail services across the eu. the new rules will simplify data collection procedures and reduce overlapping between statistical agencies, enhancing the quality of data available without imposing any additional burdens on member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for the rejection amendment on this legislative motion for a resolution. by the eu’s own admission, the eu has spent millions on the ertms deployment without any concrete results, due to irregular deployment and delays in the deployment. therefore, we cannot allow the eu to put legislation in place and still waste the taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for the rejection amendment on this legislative motion for a resolution. by the eu’s own admission, the eu has spent millions on the ertms deployment without any concrete results, due to irregular deployment and delays in the deployment. therefore, we cannot allow the eu to put legislation in place and still waste the taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ this regulation increases the availability of clear and transparent data on the performance of european goods and passenger railway services. such information is vital to ensure continued improvements to safety, accessibility and general performance of rail services across the eu. the new rules will simplify data collection procedures and reduce duplication of work by different statistical agencies, enhancing the quality of data available without imposing any additional burdens on member states.
in writing. – this was a second reading and no vote was required. the uk has a derogation (exemption) in regards to inland waterways, because there is no international or transit inland waterways transport, only national transport. if, however, the uk was not exempt, ukip would vote against this legislation because it is allowing the commission to utilise delegated powers.
in writing. ‒ this report was approved without a vote.
in writing. ‒ this was a second reading and no vote was required. the uk has a derogation (exemption) in regards to inland waterways, because there is no international or transit inland waterways transport, only national transport. if, however, the uk was not exempt, ukip would vote against this legislation because it is allowing the commission to utilise delegated powers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on statistics on goods transport by inland waterway. parliament sought to extend the scope of the regulation to include passenger transport. to test the viability of widening the scope, the commission has agreed to launch voluntary pilot studies for the collection of relevant passenger data. pending the results of those studies the commission will consider whether to amend the regulation to cover passenger services. parliament has also limited, and given a better definition of, the powers conferred on the commission by delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as the agreement defines the first steps towards integration of passenger transport statistics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as the agreement defines the first steps towards integration of passenger transport statistics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. at first reading, parliament sought to extend the scope of the regulation to include passenger transport, on the grounds that statistical data in this area could be truly useful only if they covered goods and passenger services. including both types of services would also put inland waterways on the same footing as other transport modes, for which statistics on goods and passenger services are collected as standard. to test the viability of widening the scope, the commission has agreed to launch voluntary pilot studies for the collection of relevant passenger data. pending the results of those studies it will consider whether to amend the regulation to cover passenger services. parliament has also limited, and given a better definition of, the powers conferred on the commission by delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ this was a second reading and no vote was required. the uk has a derogation (exemption) in regards to inland waterways, because there is no international or transit inland waterways transport, only national transport. if, however, the uk was not exempt, ukip would vote against this legislation because it is allowing the commission to utilise delegated powers.
in writing. ‒ this was a second reading and no vote was required. the uk has a derogation (exemption) in regards to inland waterways, because there is no international or transit inland waterways transport, only national transport. if, however, the uk was not exempt, ukip would vote against this legislation because it is allowing the commission to utilise delegated powers.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on statistics on goods transport by inland waterway. parliament has sought to extend the scope of the regulation to include passenger transport. to test the viability of widening the scope, the commission has agreed to launch voluntary pilot studies for the collection of relevant passenger data. pending the results of those studies it will consider whether to amend the regulation to cover passenger services. parliament has also limited, and given a better definition of, the powers conferred on the commission by delegated and implementing acts.
mr president, when we have left the european union we want, of course, to be good neighbours and keeping elements of the current customs union regime may be a part of that. for example, remaining part of the common regime on things like veterinary checks and anti-counterfeiting measures and so on. but it must surely be clear even to people who voted ‘remain’ in the uk that it is necessary for us now to opt out of the common external tariff. any doubt on that score has been removed by the vote in the wallonian and now the brussels regional parliaments. if the european union cannot sign trade deals with the 165 states and territories in the world which will account for some 95% of growth in the 21st century, what is it for?
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip opposes the ongoing harmonisation practices by the eu. furthermore, ukip supports the right for sovereign nations to have control over sanctions on customs infringements.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip opposes the ongoing harmonisation practices by the eu. furthermore, ukip supports the right for sovereign nations to have control over sanctions on customs infringements.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip opposes the ongoing harmonisation practices by the eu. furthermore, ukip supports the right for sovereign nations to have control over sanctions on customs infringements.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this report, for although it is an improvement on the commission proposal, it still proposes a harmonised sanctions regime across all 28 member states of the eu, removing the possibility for national authorities to address infringements on a case by case basis, as the uk is currently free to do. there is a very real risk that the punitive and inflexible regime proposed in this report would damage trade, particularly amongst smes. for these reasons i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the union legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions, as with the growth of international trade it becomes vital for union customs legislation to be fully and properly enforced across member states. it is imperative that member states do not leave any loopholes, which can make it easier for criminals to avoid adhering to eu customs legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. with the growth of international trade it becomes vital for union customs legislation to be fully and properly enforced across member states. member states should not leave any loopholes, which can make it easier for criminals to avoid adhering to eu customs legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. with the growth of international trade it becomes vital for union customs legislation to be fully and properly enforced across member states. member states should not leave any loopholes, which can make it easier for criminals to avoid adhering to eu customs legislation.
in writing. ‒ with the growth of international trade it becomes vital for union customs legislation to be fully and properly enforced across member states. member states should not leave any loopholes, which can make it easier for criminals to avoid adhering to eu customs legislation.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip opposes the ongoing harmonisation practices by the eu. furthermore, ukip supports the right for sovereign nations to have control over sanctions on customs infringements.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip opposes the ongoing harmonisation practices by the eu. furthermore, ukip supports the right for sovereign nations to have control over sanctions on customs infringements.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the ‘union legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions’, as with the growth of international trade it becomes vital for union customs legislation to be fully and properly enforced across member states. member states should not leave any loopholes, which can make it easier for criminals to avoid adhering to eu customs legislation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the union legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions, as with the growth of international trade it becomes vital for union customs legislation to be fully and properly enforced across member states. member states should not leave any loopholes, which can make it easier for criminals to avoid adhering to eu customs legislation.
in writing. – ukip voted against this binding motion for a resolution. the motion was to give consent to the commission proposal. the commission proposal was to spend an extra eur 15.8 million on security provisions for eu institutions. some of the provisions were not objectionable, such as extra cctv and x-ray machines. however, the only security proposal for the european parliament was to create posts for 35 eu officials who will be armed and deployed within parliament. if there is to be external security, it should be through professional private contractors or nation-state security, not through arming eu officials. the proposal would mean the acquisition of 7 new armoured vehicles for the european external action service and spending money on securing the private lodgings of eu commissioners.
in writing. – in principle we support the safety of ordinary employees and workers, in this context the institutions and the brussels attacks earlier this year. however there were too many questions regarding this file and not enough answers. there was no access to detailed information nor was there any open or participative debate provided to the european parliament, under the argument that there were ‘security issues’. this was a major concern in the budg committee. despite several attempts to try to discuss the matter in a more open framework the administration willingly refused to disclose information. the few details disclosed were that the belgian authorities had been asked, that they informed that security inside the union institutions was not their competence, nor were they willing or able (legally and financially) to ensure it. the other member states supported belgium authorities’ position, and they decided that the institutions should develop their security service. we are not favourable to any armed individuals inside the institutions, or the institutions themselves militarizing what is effectively a security force that is potentially really only directly accountable to the institutions rather than the public. this is why we voted against.
in writing. ‒ the majority of this amending budget is extra money for cctv, x-ray machines and security personnel. the total cost of this is eur 15.8 million. however i am concerned at the security measure proposing to hire 35 armed guards to be deployed within the parliament. these 35 armed guards will me be from outside professional private contractors or the belgian security forces but they will be eu officials carrying weapons. the cost for this is budgeted at eur 225 383. this amending budget also proposes spending eur 1.75 million to acquire seven new armoured vehicles for the european external action service. there is also a provision on ‘securing the private lodgings of several eu college members’ - eu commissioners.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding motion for a resolution. the motion was to give consent to the commission proposal. the commission proposal was to spend an extra eur 15.8 million on security provisions for eu institutions. some of the provisions were not objectionable, such as extra cctv and x-ray machines. however, the only security proposal for the european parliament was to create posts for 35 eu officials who will be armed and deployed within parliament. if there is to be external security, it should be through professional private contractors or nation-state security, not through arming eu officials. the proposal would mean the acquisition of 7 new armoured vehicles for the european external action service and spending money on securing the private lodgings of eu commissioners.
in writing. ‒ following a recent review of security following the recent terror attacks, draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to reinforce the security budget by eur 15.8m in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. security is of paramount importance, and i duly voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which proposes to reinforce the budget for security by a total amount of eur 15.8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. this is in response to a recent review of security following the terrorist attacks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which proposes to reinforce the budget for security by a total amount of eur 15.8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. this is in response to a recent review of security following the terrorist attacks.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding motion for a resolution. the motion was to give consent to the commission proposal. the commission proposal was to spend an extra eur 15.8 million on security provisions for eu institutions. some of the provisions were not objectionable, such as extra cctv and x-ray machines. however, the only security proposal for the european parliament was to create posts for 35 eu officials who will be armed and deployed within parliament. if there is to be external security, it should be through professional private contractors or nation-state security, not through arming eu officials. the proposal would mean the acquisition of 7 new armoured vehicles for the european external action service and spending money on securing the private lodgings of eu commissioners.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding motion for a resolution. the motion was to give consent to the commission proposal. the commission proposal was to spend an extra eur 15.8 million on security provisions for eu institutions. some of the provisions were not objectionable, such as extra cctv and x-ray machines. however, the only security proposal for the european parliament was to create posts for 35 eu officials who will be armed and deployed within parliament. if there is to be external security, it should be through professional private contractors or nation-state security, not through arming eu officials. the proposal would mean the acquisition of 7 new armoured vehicles for the european external action service and spending money on securing the private lodgings of eu commissioners.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 3/2016: security of the institutions. it proposes to reinforce the budget for security by a total amount of eur 15.8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. this is in response to a recent review of security following the terrorist attacks.
mr president, i voted against this report, unlike most of my colleagues in my group, and i therefore take this opportunity to explain my position. i believe that this strategy, this report, is too accommodating to the iranian regime. i think it was a mistake to reject a whole series of amendments that clearly pointed out how human rights are being violated in iran, and i believe that the drive and desire to strengthen trade relations with iran has prevailed over the protection of human rights and freedoms, and that's a big problem for me. i didn't vote for iran to become a member of the wto, i think at this moment there are no conditions for that. if we look at the number of executions in iran, for example, including children being executed, then i think it's impossible to think of iran as a country that is a standard state with some principles of democracy and human rights protection. it's one of the top three countries in the world with the highest use of the death penalty, which is why i was against this report.
mr president, what was the signature act of the iranian revolution? it was the siege of the us embassy, right? think of how extraordinary that was. i mean if the united states were to invade cuba tomorrow we would expect diplomats to be peacefully evacuated through neutral third countries. the seizure of a legation building was sending out the clearest message imaginable: your notions of territorial jurisdiction and national sovereignty do not apply to us. and sure enough, the ayatollahs went on as they had started, refusing to recognise any notion of law between nations and sponsoring terrorist movements from the khanates of the old silk road to as far afield as buenos aires. when you have a state that refuses by definition to operate within the norms of the comity of nations, that rejects the whole principle of national sovereignty, you cannot expect to do deals with it as you would a functioning civil state. and i cannot resist making the point that when you reject national sovereignty outright you set yourself on a very dangerous path. almost every tyranny has begun by refusing to accept the legitimacy of national democracy.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non—binding report. ukip does not support the development of an eu foreign policy and such does not recognise the legitimacy of the eu to engage in diplomatic relations with iran. ukip rejects the notion that the iranian nuclear deal was a ‘success for eu diplomacy’ and opposes its attempted use by the eu as a justification for the further development of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, trade policy should be a matter for member states and not the eu commission. there are serious human rights concerns, both domestically in iran and throughout the middle east, propagated by the iranian regime proxies. we have supported articles that purely discuss human rights and rejected those that contain calls for the eu to take action. this is more effectively left to appropriate international institutions and individual states.
in writing. – we support dialogue and the normalisation of diplomatic relations with iran and the fact that this report reiterated support for human rights and for iran to take steps to address this where it is lacking. however there were still a number of problems with this report which raised significant concerns. the report also called for the liberalisation of iranian economy as member of the wto, there was too much ambiguity regarding what this would entail alongside the section regarding forging a bilateral investment treaty with iran, considering the controversy around ceta and ttip around the influence corporate investors will have with the introduction of isds, we could not blindly support this report and abstained instead.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. i do not support the european council’s decision to lift all nuclear related sanctions again iran. i voted in favour of amendment 9 of the report calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and others unjustly detained. the amendment calls for fair trials and due process standards to be upheld including access to a solicitor, access to doctors and an end to the systematic torture in prisons. the iranian government needs to reform and engage positively with the international community to build mutual trust. ukip does not support the development of an eu foreign policy and such does not recognise the legitimacy of the eu to engage in diplomatic relations with iran. ukip rejects the notion that the iranian nuclear deal was a ‘success for eu diplomacy’ and opposes its attempted use by the eu as a justification for the further development of an eu foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not support the development of an eu foreign policy and such does not recognise the legitimacy of the eu to engage in diplomatic relations with iran. ukip rejects the notion that the iranian nuclear deal was a ‘success for eu diplomacy’ and opposes its attempted use by the eu as a justification for the further development of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, trade policy should be a matter for member states and not the eu commission. there are serious human rights concerns, both domestically in iran and throughout the middle east, propagated by the iranian regime proxies. we have supported articles that purely discuss human rights and rejected those that contain calls for the eu to take action. this is more effectively left to appropriate international institutions and individual states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it endorses a step-by-step reopening of political, economic and human rights relations between europe and iran, and states that the european union should play an enhanced diplomatic role to de-escalate tensions between tehran and riyadh, and promote the idea of a new regional security structure for the middle east, one based on the organisation for security and co-operation in europe (osce) model in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it endorses a step-by-step reopening of political, economic and human rights relations between europe and iran, and says the european union should play an enhanced diplomatic role to de-escalate tensions between tehran and riyadh, and promote the idea of a new regional security structure for the middle east based on the organization for security and co-operation in europe (osce) model in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it endorses a step-by-step reopening of political, economic and human rights relations between europe and iran, and says the european union should play an enhanced diplomatic role to de-escalate tensions between tehran and riyadh, and promote the idea of a new regional security structure for the middle east based on the organization for security and co-operation in europe (osce) model in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which provides political endorsement to the strategy which led to the nuclear agreement (the jcpoa) and the reopening of eu-iran relations which is integral to that agreement. the report endorses a step-by-step reopening of political, economic and human rights relations between europe and iran, and says the european union should play an enhanced diplomatic role to de-escalate tensions between tehran and riyadh, and promote the idea of a new regional security structure for the middle east based on the organization for security and co-operation in europe (osce) model in europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not support the development of an eu foreign policy and such does not recognise the legitimacy of the eu to engage in diplomatic relations with iran. ukip rejects the notion that the iranian nuclear deal was a ‘success for eu diplomacy’ and opposes its attempted use by the eu as a justification for the further development of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, trade policy should be a matter for member states and not the eu commission. there are serious human rights concerns, both domestically in iran and throughout the middle east, propagated by the iranian regime proxies. we have supported articles that purely discuss human rights and rejected those that contain calls for the eu to take action. this is more effectively left to appropriate international institutions and individual states.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not support the development of an eu foreign policy and such does not recognise the legitimacy of the eu to engage in diplomatic relations with iran. ukip rejects the notion that the iranian nuclear deal was a ‘success for eu diplomacy’ and opposes its attempted use by the eu as a justification for the further development of an eu foreign policy. furthermore, trade policy should be a matter for member states and not the eu commission. there are serious human rights concerns, both domestically in iran and throughout the middle east, propagated by the iranian regime proxies. we have supported articles that purely discuss human rights and rejected those that contain calls for the eu to take action. this is more effectively left to appropriate international institutions and individual states.
in writing. ‒ with my eplp colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises eu-iran relations must be re-established, based on a clear understanding of where there are common interests but also where there is disagreement. it also supports the establishment of an eu delegation in tehran, as well as re-establishing an interparliamentary dialogue with the iranian parliament.
in writing. ‒ iran’s nuclear deal with the international community was a welcome step in de-escalating what could have turned into a dangerous conflict. the agreement has the potential to bring further stability to the region if all sides cooperate with the long-term interests of the region’s peoples in mind. this means that the eu and its member states must put human rights at the core of the process, and engage in dialogue with iran in order to bring about clear improvements in human rights conditions and an end to gross violations in iran, including imprisonment of activists and human rights defenders, executions of minors, the systematic use of torture, and tolerance of gender-based violence. this must come about with clear human rights impact assessments, benchmarks and a monitoring framework, and full cooperation with un mechanisms. business and economic cooperation must go hand in hand with progress on human rights. i voted in favour of this report, while actively working to include in it more compelling language on human rights with a clearer assessment of the current human rights situation, by supporting the amendments brought to the plenary. the eeas must see this report as a mandate to engage iran on these issues.
mr president, man is fallen. some people in every society and every system will give into temptation. corruption is, if you like, not a product of politics, it is the normal state of affairs. the amazing thing is that in western, democratic societies we have found ways to constrain it and to incentivise people not just systematically to loot the state. but one thing we know is that you diminish the capacity for corruption when you take decisions as closely as possible to the people that they affect. this is the fundamental problem with our structures here and in brussels. it is not that the european union attracts bad people – of course, it attracts some bad people like everywhere else. it is that there is such a distance between people and decision-makers; there is such a tenuous link between taxation representation and expenditure that the system encourages, at best, negligent spending and, at worst, straightforward graft. the solution of course is to push powers downwards and outwards to national or local authorities, or better yet to individual citizens.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this non—legislative report. whilst ukip of course supports the continued fight against corruption and crime, we do not endorse the competencies of the eu to do this. more specifically, ukip opposes further eu legislation and the expansion of europol and, lastly, rejects calls for a european public prosecutor’s office. ukip meps have also voted against the eu calling for member states to legislate on mandatory rules concerning the right to stand for election or work in public administrations. ukip believe that it is not for the eu to dictate how member states should run elections or who they may – or may not – employ in public administrative roles.
in writing. – this report has significant positives in relation to fighting corruption, protecting whistle-blowers, the seizure of criminal assets, clamping down on tax havens and promoting fair trials. however, its references to the creation of a single european public prosecutors office and its conclusion that no-one with a ‘serious’ criminal conviction can serve as an mep make it impossible to support. we therefore abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. whilst ukip of course supports the continued fight against corruption and crime, we do not endorse the competencies of the eu to do this. more specifically, ukip opposes further eu legislation and the expansion of europol and, lastly, rejects calls for a european public prosecutor’s office. ukip meps have also voted against the eu calling for member states to legislate on mandatory rules concerning the right to stand for election or work in public administrations. ukip believe that it is not for the eu to dictate how member states should run elections or who they may – or may not – employ in public administrative roles.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. whilst ukip of course support the continued fight against corruption and crime, we do not endorse the competencies of the eu to do this. more specifically, ukip opposes further eu legislation and the expansion of europol and, lastly, rejects calls for a european public prosecutors office. ukip meps have also voted against the eu calling for member states to legislate on mandatory rules concerning the right to stand for election or work in public administrations. ukip believe that it is not for the eu to dictate how member states should run elections or who they may – or may not – employ in public administrative roles.
in writing. ‒ whilst i am strongly in favour of measures to combat heinous crimes such as human trafficking, and serious organised crime, i cannot support that the establishment of the european public prosecutors’ office is required to achieve this; instead we should use existing agencies such as eurojust and europol to achieve the same aims. we should resist moving towards an eu system that encroaches on national criminal justice systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fight against corruption and follow-up of the crim committee resolution, as it reiterates the recommendations set out in the 2013 resolution on organised crime, corruption and money laundering and calls for the transposition and application of existing anti-corruption instruments by member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it reiterates the recommendations set out in the 2013 resolution on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, and calls for the transposition and application of existing anti-corruption instruments by member states. it also calls for the commission to complete an assessment of the measures taken to transpose these instruments and recommends that the eu become a member of the council of europe’s anti-corruption monitoring body, greco.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it reiterates the recommendations set out in the 2013 resolution on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, and calls for the transposition and application of existing anti-corruption instruments by member states. it also calls for the commission to complete an assessment of the measures taken to transpose these instruments and recommends that the eu become a member of the council of europe’s anti-corruption monitoring body, greco.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which reiterates the recommendations set out in the 2013 resolution on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, and calls for the transposition and application of existing anti-corruption instruments by member states. it calls for the commission to complete an assessment of the measures taken to transpose these instruments and recommend that the eu become a member of the council of europe’s anti-corruption monitoring body, greco (group of states against corruption).
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. whilst ukip of course support the continued fight against corruption and crime, we do not endorse the competencies of the eu to do this. more specifically, ukip opposes further eu legislation and the expansion of europol and, lastly, rejects calls for a european public prosecutors office. ukip meps have also voted against the eu calling for member states to legislate on mandatory rules concerning the right to stand for election or work in public administrations. ukip believe that it is not for the eu to dictate how member states should run elections or who they may – or may not – employ in public administrative roles.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non—legislative report. whilst ukip of course support the continued fight against corruption and crime, we do not endorse the competencies of the eu to do this. more specifically, ukip opposes further eu legislation and the expansion of europol and, lastly, rejects calls for a european public prosecutors office. ukip meps have also voted against the eu calling for member states to legislate on mandatory rules concerning the right to stand for election or work in public administrations. ukip believe that it is not for the eu to dictate how member states should run elections or who they may – or may not – employ in public administrative roles.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the report on the fight against corruption and follow-up of the crim committee resolution, as it reiterates the recommendations set out in the 2013 resolution on organised crime, corruption and money laundering and calls for the transposition and application of existing anti-corruption instruments by member states.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the report on the fight against corruption and follow-up of the crim committee resolution, as it reiterates the recommendations set out in the 2013 resolution on organised crime, corruption and money laundering and calls for the transposition and application of existing anti-corruption instruments by member states.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non—binding report. the report contains various issues with which we cannot agree, such as the creation of migration channels into the eu. it also supports eu navfor and freedom of movement, to which we are opposed. we are, however, supportive of various humanitarian aspects, but believe that the current eu approach is misguided. support for genuine refugees would be best served with increased support as close to the country of origin as possible, to facilitate their quick return to their home country once the immediate danger has passed. there is already a well-established and supported international regime for refugees, which should be adhered to, in particular in that asylum should be granted in the first safe country.
in writing. – this report addresses the issue of human rights and migration in third countries. it is a good, solid, report on the rights of migrants. the report aims to address the root causes of migration, notes the importance of both physical and psychological violence suffered by migrants, including gendered violence. it highlights the importance of family reunification and of migrant children, especially the vulnerable situation of the many unaccompanied child refugees currently in europe and elsewhere. it also highlights the importance of recognising migrants’ qualifications obtained in their countries of origin to help them find employment and better integrate. the report also recalls the importance of identifying and addressing the situation of stateless persons, amongst many other important points. this is an important report, focussing on appropriately understanding and meeting the needs of migrants and refugees, therefore we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. this report is an unnecessary duplication of efforts already undertaken at un level, who have already agreed guiding principles on this issue, unanimously agreed by all members. there are calls within the report for the creation of more eu legislation. i am supportive of the overall objectives in improving human rights but the eu is creating an unnecessary duplication.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report contains various issues with which we cannot agree, such as the creation of migration channels into the eu. it also supports eu navfor and freedom of movement, to which we are opposed. we are, however, supportive of various humanitarian aspects, but believe that the current eu approach is misguided. support for genuine refugees would be best served with increased support as close to the country of origin as possible, to facilitate their quick return to their home country once the immediate danger has passed. there is already a well-established and supported international regime for refugees, which should be adhered to, in particular in that asylum should be granted in the first safe country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i support a europe-wide cooperation style agreement rather than forcing member states to accept migrants when they do not have the capacity to do so. additionally, the uk’s decision to take the most vulnerable refugees is a fairer solution than letting migrants walk across half the continent to seek asylum. europe needs a more flexible approach for different member states and a firm but fair policy on who to accept. this report does not deliver that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it addresses challenges linked to migration in third countries and focuses on the respect of their human rights, such as children’s and women’s rights, non-discrimination, lgbti rights, right to work. it makes clear recommendations, suggesting reintegration programmes for migrants returning to countries of origin, safe and legal migration channels and improving ‘hot spots’ at eu external borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it addresses challenges linked to migration in third countries and focuses on the respect of their human rights, such as children’s and women’s rights, non-discrimination, lgbti rights, right to work. it makes clear recommendations, suggesting reintegration programmes for migrants returning to countries of origin, safe and legal migration channels and improving ‘hot spots’ at eu external borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which addresses challenges linked to migration in third countries and focuses on the respect of their human rights, such as children’s and women’s rights, non-discrimination, lgbti rights, right to work. the report makes a clear distinction between migrants, asylum-seekers and refugees. the report focuses particularly on problems linked to statelessness of migrants and on humanitarian conditions in of origin and transit countries. the rapporteur makes clear recommendations, suggesting reintegration programmes for migrants returning to countries of origin, safe and legal migration channels and improving ‘hot spots’ at eu external borders .
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report contains various issues with which we cannot agree, such as the creation of migration channels into the eu. it also supports eu navfor and freedom of movement, to which we are opposed. we are, however, supportive of various humanitarian aspects, but believe that the current eu approach is misguided. support for genuine refugees would be best served with increased support as close to the country of origin as possible, to facilitate their quick return to their home country once the immediate danger has passed. there is already a well-established and supported international regime for refugees, which should be adhered to, in particular in that asylum should be granted in the first safe country.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report contains various issues with which we cannot agree, such as the creation of migration channels into the eu. it also supports eu navfor and freedom of movement, to which we are opposed. we are, however, supportive of various humanitarian aspects, but believe that the current eu approach is misguided. support for genuine refugees would be best served with increased support as close to the country of origin as possible, to facilitate their quick return to their home country once the immediate danger has passed. there is already a well-established and supported international regime for refugees, which should be adhered to, in particular in that asylum should be granted in the first safe country.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the report on human rights and migration in third countries. among other things, the report addresses challenges linked to migration in third countries and focuses on the respect of their human rights, such as children’s and women’s rights, non-discrimination, lgbti rights, and right to work.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the report on human rights and migration in third countries. among other things, the report addresses challenges linked to migration in third countries and focuses on the respect of their human rights, such as children’s and women’s rights, non-discrimination, lgbti rights, and right to work.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank the authors of this report. it sets out a humane and compassionate strategy on migration and asylum. eu member state governments, including the tory government in the uk, should take notice and adopt this approach, instead of talking about macabre dental checks for children. this shows that eu institutions set out a plan, and national governments must therefore take action. refugees are often subject to horrific abuse on their journeys, particularly vulnerable families, women and children. the eu and member states must cooperate with third countries to provide capacities to deal effectively with refugees, while upholding their fundamental human rights and provide access to education, healthcare, and economic inclusion. we need to make sure that eu actions are in no way implicated in human rights violations in third countries, and that we continue to promote conflict resolution, sustainable development and dialogue to bring peace to war-torn regions.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. this report is an unnecessary duplication of efforts already undertaken by the un, who have already agreed on guiding principles on the matter, unanimously agreed by all members. there are calls within the report for the creation of more eu legislation. we are supportive of the overall objectives in improving human rights, but believe that the eu is an unnecessary duplication.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on making corporations that are in any way connected to the eu more socially responsible. positive aspects of the report include support for the mandatory labelling of conflict-related goods, national responsibility for corporate activity in third countries, national responsibility to rectify or remedy human rights violations in their territory, an acknowledgement of the differences facing smes and multinational corporations, restrictions on dual use products, and a consistent recognition of the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the report contains various issues with which i cannot agree, such as the creation of migration channels into the eu. it also supports eunav for and freedom of movement, to which i am opposed. i am supportive of various humanitarian aspects, but believe that the current eu approach is misguided. support for genuine refugees would be best served with increased support as close to the country of origin as possible, to facilitate their quick return to their home country once the immediate danger has passed. there is already a well-established and supported international regime for refugees, which should be adhered to, in particular that asylum should be granted in the first safe country.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. this report is an unnecessary duplication of efforts already undertaken by the un, who have already agreed on guiding principles on the matter, unanimously agreed by all members. there are calls within the report for the creation of more eu legislation. we are supportive of the overall objectives in improving human rights, but believe that the eu is an unnecessary duplication.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it reminds corporate actors of their responsibility to respect human rights throughout their global operations, regardless of where their users are located and independently of whether the host state meets its own human rights obligations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it reminds corporate actors of their responsibility to respect human rights throughout their global operations, regardless of where their users are located and independently of whether the host state meets its own human rights obligations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which reminds corporate actors of their responsibility to respect human rights throughout their global operations, regardless of where their users are located and independently of whether the host state meets its own human rights obligations.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. this report is an unnecessary duplication of efforts already undertaken by the un, who have already agreed on guiding principles on the matter, unanimously agreed by all members. there are calls within the report for the creation of more eu legislation. we are supportive of the overall objectives in improving human rights, but believe that the eu is an unnecessary duplication.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. this report is an unnecessary duplication of efforts already undertaken by the un, who have already agreed on guiding principles on the matter, unanimously agreed by all members. there are calls within the report for the creation of more eu legislation. we are supportive of the overall objectives in improving human rights, but believe that the eu is an unnecessary duplication.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the report on corporate liability for serious human rights abuses in third countries. the report reminds corporate actors of their responsibility to respect human rights throughout their global operations, regardless of where their users are located and independently of whether the host state meets its own human rights obligations.
in writing. ‒ we live in a world dominated by large international corporations, and where many of our products, from the mobile phones in our pockets to the food in our supermarkets, and the clothes we wear come at the expense of enormous suffering, cruelty and abuse of human rights. this report is an important step forward in creating a corporate culture in which violations of human rights are simply unacceptable. companies must play by rules that uphold human decency and basic dignity. as a supporter of the alternative trade mandate, i believe that our economy must not put profit ahead of people and planet. i have also chosen to use a fairphone (which is made without conflict minerals) and would recommend colleagues to do the same. whilst corporations must do more, member states must create due diligence and reporting rules, and also introduce criminal liability for companies operating under their jurisdiction that violate human rights in other countries. the international community must do more and move towards a binding treaty on business and human rights. i urge the eu national governments to work towards that goal.
in writing. – today ukip voted against this non-legislative report on eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. the report urges member states to fully implement the third eu energy package. ukip rejects the implementation of eu energy policy legislation, it is the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. – i voted against this motion for resolution which seeks to boost the use of liquefied natural gas in europe. i believe that it had an unbalanced promotion of the use of fossil gas which poses a serious threat for climate change and lng should not benefit from taxpayers’ money. i was particularly concerned that this motion calls for the elimination of all barriers to global free trade in lng including in ttip whilst also welcoming the commission’s work towards removing export restrictions on us gas to europe. shale gas, which accounts for more than half of us gas production, is very controversial in europe and in ireland, where widespread opposition has been voiced.
in writing. ‒ although the report states that the elimination of regulatory obstacles would greatly improve the liquidity of gas markets the report urges member states to fully implement the third eu energy package. i am in favour of transparency and eliminating eu regulation but i do not believe that the third eu energy package will benefit the uk.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against this non-legislative report on eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. the report urges member states to fully implement the third eu energy package. ukip rejects the implementation of eu energy policy legislation, it is the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am opposed to the import of fracked gas and because the report is very supportive of lng expansion while neglecting the reality of climate change. it is in contradiction with the paris agreement and does not recognise the urgent need to phase out fossil fuels. in wales there is huge opposition to fracking and many of my constituents have written to me expressing their concerns and opposition to this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage as it is an important pillar to strengthen the eu’s energy security. while increasing security of energy supply, the eu strategy for lng should crucially fit into the wider european climate and energy targets and priorities, and correspond to the cop21 agreement, putting a focus on reducing demand, improving energy efficiency and phasing out fossil fuels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage as it is an important pillar to strengthen the eu’s energy security. i strongly believe that the eu energy security strategy should be based on development of renewable and energy efficiency and fit into the wider european climate and energy targets and priorities, and correspond to the cop21 agreement; i believe that lng should only be considered as a transitional fuel and that we should not lock ourselves in the development of stranded assets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage as it is an important pillar to strengthen the eu’s energy security. while increasing security of energy supply, the eu strategy for lng should crucially fit into the wider european climate and energy targets and priorities, and correspond to the cop21 agreement, putting a focus on reducing demand, improving energy efficiency and phasing out fossil fuels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage as it is an important pillar to strengthen the eu’s energy security. while increasing security of energy supply, the eu strategy for lng should crucially fit into the wider european climate and energy targets and priorities, and correspond to the cop21 agreement, putting a focus on reducing demand, improving energy efficiency and phasing out fossil fuels.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against this non-legislative report on eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. the report urges member states to fully implement the third eu energy package. ukip rejects the implementation of eu energy policy legislation, it is the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ i have to say that the resolution contains criticism of the nord stream pipeline capacity increase. that is why i support this resolution in the vote.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against this non-legislative report on eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. the report urges member states to fully implement the third eu energy package. ukip rejects the implementation of eu energy policy legislation, it is the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage as it is an important pillar to strengthen the eu’s energy security. while increasing security of energy supply, the eu strategy for lng should crucially fit into the wider european climate and energy targets and priorities, and correspond to the cop21 agreement, putting a focus on reducing demand, improving energy efficiency and phasing out fossil fuels.
in writing. – we voted against this non-legislative report because ‘one size does not fit all’ and it will extend the eu’s kafkaesque fisheries bureaucracy to anglers and recreational fishing.
in writing. – we abstained on supporting the inclusion of the reference to the impact of recreational fisheries into the revised control regulation as it raised concerns as it is not clear what that would entail. the report also states that it is against any mandatory video surveillance on board for all vessels. while we believe that small-scale local fishermen are being criminalised by the state, especially in light of the unjustifiable raid earlier last month on fishermen in castletowenbere in cork, and that they should be excluded from such mandatory surveillance considering their low impact on stocks, we have still nonetheless called for increased surveillance regarding foreign operators of large scale industrial vessels such as supertrawlers fishing in irish waters, so we cannot support that wording within the report. the report also reflects a high centralisation and an eu-level definition of the technical and political measures related to controls, which i oppose, rather than cooperation between member states. these are the reasons why we abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the title of this report says it all. fisheries should not be under eu control and one size certainly does not suit uk fishermen. the report also wishes to bring in uniform regulation across the eu for recreational fishing.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this non-legislative report because ‘one size does not fit all’ and it will extend the eu’s kafkaesque fisheries bureaucracy to anglers and recreational fishing.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which ensures a level playing field for fishermen in the eu. uk fishermen play by the rules and make sure that they fish their quota in the right place with the right equipment. when the rules are broken, the uk authorities can and do impose large fines or other penalties. when fishermen in other member states break the rules, we expect that the same should happen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which paves the way for a review of the legislation covering fishery controls. uk fishermen play by the rules and it is only right that spanish, portuguese and every other member state implement the rules in the same way. if they don’t, there is no point in having a common fisheries policy. this report calls for a level playing field so that fishermen across the eu can safely know they are not being undermined by their neighbours. this is something that i strongly support.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the european parliament resolution on how to make fisheries controls in europe uniform. the report advocates harmonising the scope of controls, increasing training opportunities for inspectors and fishermen, standardising sanctions, and investing more in technologies and the efca budget. it will create a level playing field for fishermen across the eu and improve respect for controls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it will create a level playing field for fishermen across the eu and improve respect for controls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it will create a level playing field for fishermen across the eu and improve respect for controls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which will create a level playing field for fishermen across the eu and improve respect for controls. among other things, the report advocates harmonising the scope of controls, increasing training opportunities for inspectors and fishermen, standardising sanctions, and investing more into technologies and the efca budget. advisory committees will be completely involved in this process.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this non-legislative report because ‘one size does not fit all’ and it will extend the eu’s kafkaesque fisheries bureaucracy to anglers and recreational fishing.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this non-legislative report because ‘one size does not fit all’ and it will extend the eu’s kafkaesque fisheries bureaucracy to anglers and recreational fishing.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for a european parliament resolution on how to make fisheries controls in europe uniform. among other things, the report advocates harmonising the scope of controls, increasing training opportunities for inspectors and fishermen, standardising sanctions, and investing more in technologies and the efca budget. it will create a level playing field for fishermen across the eu and improve respect for controls.
in writing. – ukip voted to reject this non-legislative resolution as the eu should not be making decisions that affect the transport policy of member states.
in writing. – this report outlined a range of suggestions to modernise and enhance the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure from and within central and eastern parts of the eu. it has some positive features, including reiterating the ten-t objectives of bridging missing links, removing bottlenecks, and ensuring seamless connections for long-distance and regional transport, particularly in cross-border regions, for passengers and freight. however, attempts to improve the report in committee by including pro-social and pro-environment elements were rejected and overall the report is highly focused on economic growth and competitiveness, heavy infrastructure and subordinating all transport modes ‘without exception’ to the needs of competitiveness and the single market. the report also repeatedly promotes the use of public-private partnerships in developing transport infrastructure, and its reference to ten-t is limited to the core network, with a heavy focus on growth rather than meeting social need. for these reasons, we voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this is a report that does not directly affect the uk but it is the eu making decisions that will affect other member states with minimal consultation of national governments.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to reject this non-legislative resolution as the eu should not be making decisions that affect the transport policy of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a european parliament resolution on improving the connection and accessibility of the transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe (cee). to date, most of the transport infrastructure projects planned to be financed by the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) are found in western europe. this report aims to address that imbalance, by stating that capacity building and technical assistance is required; and that the commission should encourage investors to support project platforms that focus on cee transport infrastructure projects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it focuses on how eu funding can be better utilised to address disparities in infrastructure development between central and eastern europe (cee) countries and the rest of the eu. the report calls for member states and the commission to focus on completing ten-t corridors, bridging missing links, removing bottlenecks and improving connections between different modes of transport in cee countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it focuses on how eu funding can be better utilised to address disparities in infrastructure development between central and eastern europe (cee) countries and the rest of the eu. the report calls for member states and the commission to focus on completing ten-t corridors, bridging missing links, removing bottlenecks and improving connections between different modes of transport in cee countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which focuses on how eu funding can be better utilised to address disparities in infrastructure development between central and eastern europe (cee) countries and the rest of the eu. the report calls for member states and the commission to focus on completing ten-t corridors, bridging missing links, removing bottlenecks and improving connections between different modes of transport in cee countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to reject this non-legislative resolution as the eu should not be making decisions that affect the transport policy of member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to reject this non-legislative resolution as the eu should not be making decisions that affect the transport policy of member states.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for a european parliament resolution on improving the connection and accessibility of the transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. to date, most of the transport infrastructure projects planned to be financed by european fund for strategic investments (efsi) are found in western europe. in order to address this imbalance, the report states that capacity building and technical assistance is required and that the commission should encourage investors to support project platforms that focus on cee transport infrastructure projects.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip firmly rejects the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. ukip believe that this mechanism is a severe infringement of national sovereignty. ukip also vehemently opposes calls in this report for the eu to accede to the echr.
in writing. – this report proposes creating a pact on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights across the eu prior to any future treaty change. while some of the language looks positive, with references to fundamental rights, its implementation would actually have serious consequences for national sovereignty as it empowers the commission to further interfere in national affairs. for example, the report refers to protecting the ‘common values of the union’, and suggests the commission assumes responsibility to ‘correct breaches of union values.’ the report also suggests that the european court of justice should monitor legislation from member states, in addition to its remit of examining adherence to eu law in relation to the treaties. the mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is described as ‘a tool for compliance with the enforcement of the charter and treaties’, and affords the commission ‘appropriate binding and corrective mechanisms’ that go beyond article 7 teu. attempts to have eu institutions included in such scrutiny also failed, securing only a voluntary opt-in. as the negative implications for sovereign governments are too great, we voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative report. member states have already handed over control of their laws, fisheries, defence and finances to unelected and unaccountable european bureaucrats. is it really wise to hand over control of member states mechanisms for democracy? i believe this is a dangerous proposal and an infringement of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip firmly rejects the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. ukip believe that this mechanism is a severe infringement of national sovereignty. ukip also vehemently opposes calls in this report for the eu to accede to the echr.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip firmly rejects the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. ukip believe that this mechanism is a severe infringement of national sovereignty. ukip also vehemently opposes calls in this report for the eu to accede to the echr.
in writing. ‒ despite fully supporting the rule of law and protecting fundamental rights in the uk and across the eu, i am unable to support this report due to serious concerns that the proposed system would be overly bureaucratic, would make what should be an objective assessment into a political point—scoring exercise and because a political institution, such as the european parliament, is not best placed to address issues related to fundamental rights in member states.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour colleagues, i support efforts to promote and secure the rule of law across the eu. it is therefore very important that existing mechanisms are used effectively to promote better dialogue with member states and the eu. this will contribute to a more streamlined approach to upholding fundamental rights and the rule of law. furthermore, we support the role of the european parliament in maintaining and continuing the debate on the rule of law and fundamental rights across the eu. as we believe that the focus should be on the improvement of existing mechanisms, i abstained from this vote.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support efforts to promote and secure rule of law across the eu. it is important that the existing mechanisms in place are used effectively to promote better dialogue with member states and the eu as this will contribute to a more streamlined approach to upholding fundamental rights and rule of law. in addition, labour meps support the role of the european parliament in maintaining the debate on rule of law and fundamental rights across the eu. labour meps abstained from the vote, as we believe that efforts should focus on improving existing mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support efforts to promote and secure rule of law across the eu. it is important that the existing mechanisms in place are used effectively to promote better dialogue with member states and the eu as this will contribute to a more streamlined approach to upholding fundamental rights and rule of law. in addition, labour meps support the role of the european parliament in maintaining the debate on rule of law and fundamental rights across the eu. labour meps abstained from the vote, as we believe that efforts should focus on improving existing mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support efforts to promote and secure rule of law across the eu. it is important that the existing mechanisms in place are used effectively to promote better dialogue with member states and the eu as this will contribute to a more streamlined approach to upholding fundamental rights and rule of law. in addition, labour meps support the role of the european parliament in maintaining the debate on rule of law and fundamental rights across the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip firmly rejects the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. ukip believe that this mechanism is a severe infringement of national sovereignty. ukip also vehemently opposes calls in this report for the eu to accede to the echr.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip firmly rejects the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. ukip believe that this mechanism is a severe infringement of national sovereignty. ukip also vehemently opposes calls in this report for the eu to accede to the echr.
in writing. ‒ as a labour mep, i support efforts to promote and secure the rule of law across the eu. it is important that the existing mechanisms in place are used effectively to promote better dialogue with member states and the eu as this will contribute to a more streamlined approach to upholding fundamental rights and the rule of law. in addition, i support the role of the european parliament in maintaining the debate on the rule of law and fundamental rights across the eu. myself and other labour meps abstained from the vote, as we believe that efforts should focus on improving existing mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ the situation of fundamental rights and democracy is under threat across europe, with far-right populist movements gaining ground, including in the uk, and so the eu must mobilise to counter potential violations. i welcome parliament’s call for the establishment of a european mechanism for fundamental rights and democracy, in order to ensure that these are upheld across the union. just as the european semester aims to uphold common standards of economic policy, this mechanism must involve european institutions, national governments, and parliaments working to ensure that civil rights in the eu are upheld.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this annual debate gives us the time to identify the issues we face, decide what actions we need to take and which of those actions we should take together. we need to focus on what is needed, not just on what is urgent, and there are many issues. on the borders of europe we see war and violence, precarious relationships with our neighbours, especially russia. many european countries have witnessed the horror of terrorism and many people are still facing real economic hardships. our leaders are changing too. we will soon have a new us president and then elections across much of europe, so we will need new relationships. and then there is the issue of brexit. a new relationship is needed between britain and the eu. i hope it will be, i wish it to be, a cooperative one. there is a lot of work to be done. on behalf of the conservative reformists there are areas where we do not agree with other colleagues in this chamber. we do not support calls for increases to the eu budget, for more eu taxes, for an eu army or for more centralisation of decisions. but there are areas where we agree we need to work together – on fighting terror, on working with nato on security and defence, on tackling the causes of the refugee crisis, on confronting climate change and reducing our carbon footprint, on re-energising trade relations in the single market. in europe we have spent 40 years tearing down barriers to trade. but now we face a real risk of a new era of protectionism. we must re-grab the conversation with the ordinary consumer on the benefits of trade and the single market for them, and not just focus on that border-crossing consumer elite. to the commission i would say, please respect and reconsider where we disagree and work together where we agree. recognise now that people do want greater control over the decisions that affect them, and some of our decisions are better left to national governments too.
mr president, some two and a half years ago i had a very pleasant surprise when the commissioner/vice-president wanted to sit with me and discuss what the commission work programme should be at that time. i have many members from my committee here, where i have led on the subsidiarity and proportionality, better law—making brief. i have been very prescriptive in my approach throughout that time but i find, based upon my national position as a british mep, that i cannot be so prescriptive now. commissioner, you may recall that in the conversation we had at that time it was clear that the europe and national state relationship was broken and that is what did it for us in the united kingdom now. that is what must absolutely be fixed. i keep being told by colleagues that you britishers cannot have à la carte europe. well, actually, colleagues, you have all got à la carte europe. when europe does something good, your national governments claim it for themselves. when europe does something which is misreported, your national governments blame it on europe, and unless you bridge that gap by making your parliaments directly a part of the decision—making process here in the european union, i am afraid that bridge is going to get wider and wider and eventually, one by one, we will all fall in ... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – we are all aware of the pressures that the european union is under and it is very important that these are met without asking the taxpayers for more money. would mr olbrycht agree with me that the court of auditors has said that we would make a saving of eur 110 million a year if this parliament had only one seat, and would he agree with me that we should move as quickly as possible to having one seat and stop this foolish commute between brussels and strasbourg?
mr president, i am very happy to repeat it. what i said was: that we are aware of the pressures that the european union is under and that we should accommodate this without asking the taxpayers for more money. is mr olbrycht aware of the report by the court of auditors that says that, were this parliament to sit in only one seat, we would save eur 110 million a year, and would he further agree with me that we should stop this silly commute between brussels and strasbourg every month?
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, any politician has to be an amazing contortionist because they have to be able to simultaneously sit on the fence and keep both ears to the ground. well the european union certainly knows how to tap dance. back in 2014 david cameron came back from brussels waving a piece of paper saying he had got a cut in the eu’s long-term financial plan, the multiannual financial framework, but as usual it came with all sorts of caveats, and all sorts of ways were found to get around it: add to the eu’s income by levying fines on member states and create a flexibility instrument whose flexibility would put the best gymnast to shame. over the period of this framework, in real terms we are now talking about over one trillion euro – one trillion with a t – of taxes going to this monolith and spent so inefficiently. they are bending over backwards to get more of your money, but i cannot mix any more metaphors, because i am afraid my minute is up.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – madam president, i rise as the afet rapporteur for the 2017 budget. the challenges we are facing across the globe are truly unprecedented. whether it is about the struggle for democracy on our borders or conflict in africa or increasing tensions in the south china sea, these issues are closer to home than many realise, directly impacting our stability, trade relations and our jobs and growth. no one country can tackle these on their own. so therefore i welcome that the commission is focusing on stabilising our neighbourhood, tackling the root causes of migration in africa and reinforcing its funding for asia. thank you for your presentation commissioner. let us not forget that these investments, if implemented with full respect for human rights, make a real difference in ensuring people have a future in their own region and managing the refugee crisis. the reason why the eu sometimes does not always make the impact is that member states are constantly robbing peter to pay paul, and i would like the presidency to take this message to member states, that it is important that we work together to tackle many of the challenges that have been outlined.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. – madam president, i will speak on behalf of the committee on development. less than six months ago, this house backed my proposals to establish stronger ties between the eu development community, the dci and the private sector, legislating a revolution in development financing and one not reliant on the age-old method of simply spending more of the taxpayers’ money. at a stroke we turned 4.8 billion into 68 billion through leveraged finance with the private sector. yet this budget, i seem to think, takes no account either of my report or of the state and aspirations of the juncker plan. far from encouraging public-private sector partnerships, we have chosen just to increase spending by a further 2.8 billion. we have chosen – or it would appear that we have chosen – to ignore the manifest potential of the private sector to bridge an admittedly daunting funding gap, and to bring local expertise to our project. if the juncker plan is to be anything but a fantasy in mr juncker’s head, then the commission must embrace fully the potential of private—public partnerships and the financial potential this begets. while recognising that increases to the migration asylum budget may help migrants, it will not stop migration. migration will only be stopped by investing in those countries and eliminating poverty, and for that we need an enormous amount of money. and knowing that the commissioner, vice-president georgieva’s background is in development ... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. – madam president, the committee on regional development (regi) believes that cohesion policy is still the best and most effective tool the eu has in terms of investment, so we were concerned when the commission proposed cutting heading 1b by eur 37.3 billion or 23.5%. the commission argues that this is based on estimates coming from member states, although i was surprised at those estimates because in 2017 i really believed that cohesion policy and the programmes would reach cruising speed after a very slow start. we certainly believe that the additional eur 199 million cut proposed by the council is not helpful. therefore the committee on regional development would propose putting the draft budget level back as it was, as proposed by the commission. we also feel that there is a need to monitor member states and to help those member states which have difficulty in reaching a decent absorption level.
mr president, this budget rightly prioritises jobs, growth, migration and security, and it will also give valuable help to farmers struggling with the effects of the russian trade ban. that is both timely, appropriate and welcome. but i voice two concerns. first, while i support this additional expenditure, we do need greater clarity in some of the objectives of some of the programmes, and we certainly need greater reassurance of value for money. second, we are answerable to the european taxpayers for the way we spend their money. so, rather than using this additional expenditure as a reason to demand a bigger budget, we ought to be maximising the use of flexibility and redeployment.
mr president, parliament wants to reverse cuts to the eu budget and spend even more taxpayers’ money on the european union, but this is not rocket science, this is not like national budgets where cuts mean less money spent on services that actually matter and where austerity means harming the citizens of a country. what we are actually talking about here is victimless cuts. we have a chance to cut nonsense spending. we have proposed savings of three billion euro a year across 33 amendments, not one of which would harm the citizens of europe one iota. scrap the funding for pan-european political parties, scrap the funding for pan-european political foundations. let us stop sending taxpayers’ money to turkey to help it join the european union. how about cutting our own pay and expenses here? let us cut the budget for the ego trip that is the eu jean monnet professors programme, and stop funding the propagandist house of history for which costs are still spiralling out of control and it has not even opened yet. we are proposing victimless cuts here but i am predicting that not one of them is going to pass.
mr president, on 23 june the british people voted to leave the european union. it was a decision that sent shockwaves across the world and should have sprung these institutions into action. instead, in relation to this budget, it is a signal for just more of the same. even though this budget will raise spending and reverse cuts, it is not sufficient for some of those in this house today that i have heard call for even more spending. the reality is that it will see hardworking families bear the pain of such decisions. there is no capacity for change. as my colleague mr torvalds indicated, it increases spending on administration and agencies and it cuts staff jobs only to create other jobs in new areas. however, i do find the commitment to provide new funding for victims of terrorism positive. just for the record of this house, since mr torvalds did mention the titanic in his speech, i come from the constituency and represent the town that actually built the titanic ship. it was a fine and noble idea to build the largest, most luxurious liner in the world and it was fine when it left belfast, but it was poor guidance and lack of awareness that saw it hit an iceberg and sink with such disastrous consequences.
blue-card question. – i just wanted to ask mr rübig, as he mentioned the importance of coding and digital skills, how important that is for our citizens? i wonder if he would like to expand about the importance of eu code week that happened last week and how many of us in this chamber took part in that, promoting digital skills and coding skills, the skills of just now and for our future?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, thank you to our rapporteur, who mentioned the issues around investment and training, in particular digital skills, and then to the council, who were saying about implementation. in particular i hope that will also involve infringement proceedings against member states that do not implement rules that they have already signed up to. i want to concentrate my time on the importance of the single market, critical to our economic success and therefore critical to european semester process. and why does this matter? because we create one set of rules that covers 28 countries, that covers 500 million people. one set of rules, 28 countries, 500 million people, and that could be as diverse from public procurement to standardisation to mutual recognition of qualifications, to just mention a few issues. and why is that important? it is important to business because it creates certainty, and it is important to consumers because it guarantees quality. and that is why i find myself as a uk politician representing scotland, it is such a tragedy at the moment that my country, the united kingdom, could see itself pull itself out of the single market, a single market that it developed and shaped and helped to produce. and in scotland alone – let me finish – the single market, our access to the single market guarantees 80 000 jobs in scotland. 80 000 jobs are reliant on our access to the single market. that is why the single market matters. it matters to citizens to make it better, fairer and effective for all.
blue-card question. – madam harkin, just a quick question: surely the irish republic is making a great deal of money out of their differential tax rates? would it not be in the best interests of the irish republic to join great britain in their brexit with an irexit?
mr president, mr moscovici is coming out again with the same old idea that was criticised in the past: to install a common consolidated corporate tax base. the commission says this base is necessary to create a fairer taxation system with more transparency, but what it really means is the first step to supranational fiscal union. secondly, the commission wants a common eu list of so—called non—cooperative tax jurisdictions. this is a system for blackmailing more competitive countries and making them fall into line. if you reduce tax competition between states there is no incentive to keep the public services efficient and the government will continue to plunder taxpayers’ hard—earned money. the good news for the uk taxpayer is that with a hard brexit, out of the single market and fiscal union, the uk can reduce corporate tax to 10%, making us massively more competitive than the sclerotic overtaxed eu. our irish brethren are already doing this and may join us in our exit. i hope that ms harkin will perhaps see the logic of my argument.
madam president, so far, the campaign for tax justice has been largely reactive. as politicians, we have reacted to the news about laughably small tax payments from companies like apple, ikea and mcdonalds and we have been reacting to the outrage from those we represent about the way multinationals gain an unfair advantage in competitive markets, and that this deprives governments of revenue they need for public investment. for many years, the green group has been campaigning for strong political action to achieve tax justice, so we are delighted to welcome the re-launch of the commission’s proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base and we welcome the message it sends: that the political institutions are listening to people again, and that they are not continuing to chase after corporations who are always one step ahead. this is the sort of action we need if we are to rebuild people’s confidence, both in the european institutions and in our democratic politicians. the way we currently tax companies, treating subsidiaries from the same company as if they are completely independent entities, does not reflect the reality of their operations. implementing a common and consolidated system for taxing companies across the union would be a crucial step towards ending tax avoidance by global corporations. but i would also stress, as other colleagues have done, the importance of moving towards a minimum corporate tax rate across our continent, bringing an end to the race to the bottom on tax rates. my own country, the uk, is now at a crossroads. will we follow europe in promoting action to end corporate tax avoidance or follow the route being pushed by some hard—brexit supporters and become one of the world’s leading tax havens? it is clear that the public interest is best served by following the eu’s ambitious lead on tax policy, and we must all work to ensure that brexit does not encourage further tax competition between member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in a digital age we need to make sure that online content and services are accessible to all, and ensure equality of access to the digital world, just as we have endeavoured to do in the physical world. i would like to thank all my colleagues, especially the rapporteur, for their work on this file. i am pleased that we managed to get a more coherent text and a forward—looking approach, including a pathway to introduce the mobile apps into the scope. it is important that legislation does not unnecessarily become a burden on public sector bodies, which is why we also brought in the ability in certain cases for the on-demand system. it was very important that, where there are complaints, these are actually answered. i would like to thank the commissioner for that. in our group, helga stevens mep has been doing some incredibly impressive work to make sure that parliament thinks very hard about accessibility in everything we do. i would like to thank the many organisations that helped with their advice on this work, and particularly, from the uk, the rnib, the organisation for blind people. thank you so much for your assistance.
rapporteur. – madam president, plant health is a very important issue across the whole of europe and the agreement that we have reached on protective measures against pests of plants is a really significant achievement. i would particularly like to pay tribute to my shadows and thank them for all their work, for their positive approach and for their cooperation over many months. this regulation will strengthen our phytosanitary security and our biodiversity through a proportionate and risk-based approach that provides quicker decision-making, faster action and better collaboration between member states. our problem is that pests and diseases do not respect national borders. that is why it is so important to have an eu-wide agreement. at its most basic, this regulation aims first to prevent the entry of plant pests into the eu, then to eradicate harmful organisms when they are found to be present and, finally, to contain the spread of any outbreak when the first aim fails. so this agreement updates rules that date back to 2000, in order to provide a modern, responsive and effective regime for plant health. it provides better protection at import, against high-risk trades, it provides increased surveillance and financial support, including better prioritisation of the most harmful of organisms, it introduces stricter eradication measures, it harmonises plant passports and it gives clearer rules for protected zones. in 2015, the value of crop output in the eu amounted to over eur 200 billion. it is a key sector for european agriculture and it represents the livelihood of thousands of farmers. we need only look at the devastation caused by xylella fastidiosa to see both the socioeconomic and the environmental damage which can be caused by pests. xylella has affected thousands of acres of olive groves in southern member states and caused severe economic losses for farmers. another example is chalara or ash dieback, which has spread rapidly across continental europe. in the uk, this fungus was first confirmed in 2012 in trees growing in nurseries or in recently established plantations. it has spread so rapidly that it is estimated that 80 million ash trees could be affected. it is crucial to protect eu agriculture, horticulture and forestry and as a continent our defences are only as strong as the weakest link. new pests and diseases are emerging all the time as a result of globalisation, climate change and the increasing volume of imports from new parts of the world. all this increases the risk of future outbreaks of harmful organisms. so the challenge of how best to respond to these risks has led to significant political differences amongst the member states and across parliament. i believe the compromise we reached represents the best agreement possible to bridge these differences. it strikes the right balance between facilitating legitimate trade, on the one hand, and protecting the eu from pests from third countries, on the other. a new article was inserted, introducing the possibility of a preliminary assessment on the basis of which high-risk plants, plant products or other objects would be prevented from entering union territory until a full risk assessment was carried out. presuming the safeguards for defining high risk are appropriately applied, then the scope for introducing a closed system via the back door is negligible. i really strongly recommend this agreement to parliament.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, we are talking here about an eu-wide attempt to control pests of plants. failure to control threats to plants and imported produce is well documented. wto rules allow countries to ban imports on this basis. member states have different priorities when it comes to deciding on invasive species control. northern finland and cyprus are unlikely to sing from the same song sheet in this respect; the eu will, however, expect them to do so. controlling pests requires pesticides. the eu institutions are doing their best to reduce the active ingredients that may be used. the latest victim are the endocrine disruptors, and their demise will reduce the number of materials available from 400 to a little over 300, creating more pressure on those that remain to succumb to increasing resistance from the target pest. whilst the green lobby might be happy with the situation, they have yet to demonstrate that endocrine disruptors are a proven hazard when used correctly. i have personally handled these products for very many years and, to the great disappointment the green lobby, i am still here.
rapporteur. – madam president, let me thank everyone who has participated in this debate. i think we all recognise the importance of bio-security to the eu. this agreement modernises the regime, both for imports from third countries and for intra-eu movements of plants and plant products. it strengthens surveillance, eradication and containment and improves prevention at import. and it does this without needlessly burdening growers or the horticulture trade. the strengthened surveillance elements in this agreement are particularly important. currently, co-financing is limited to costs for eradication and containment but not surveillance. the new regime introduces annual surveys to check for the presence of pests and also the listing of a new category of union quarantine pests. for trade, the delegation of responsibilities to private operators to issue plant passports has been a major step forward. the new rules aim to restore trust in the system by harmonising the format for passport information and extending the scope to cover all plants for planting except for certain seeds. this agreement has undergone years of negotiations. we adopted a first reading position in april 2014 and, thanks to the tireless work of the shadows, over seven trilogues, we finally reached agreement just before christmas. the agreement we reached strikes the right balance: protecting trade while allowing us to respond to threats in a coordinated and effective way across the eu. it is crucial to protect european agriculture and forestry from pests and diseases, and it is essential to put in place this legislative framework with its new stronger provisions without further delay.
blue-card question. – whilst it is regrettable that two of our meps fronted up to each other, there is absolutely no evidence that anybody was punched at all and i do want that put on the record. however, if you would like to come outside with me we could have a civilised conversation over a cup of coffee.
mr president, i would like to say this in a calm and measured sense. there is an investigation going on into the events that mr weber has just made accusations about. not only an internal ukip one, but a parliamentary one where one of our colleagues is investigating this. what he has said has prejudiced that investigation, is absolutely outrageous, and i suggest to you, sir, asking you as the guardian of the rules, please could you do something about this – this is unacceptable.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, if ever there was a theme for a summit meeting, then surely the theme of this one was ‘gridlock’. powerless to move or commit to decisions on some of the key issues facing the west and the eu right now, at a time when voters in all eu countries are asking questions of their political leaders. the eu has been defined in the past week by weakness and indecision. why? we should ask ourselves: why is it so difficult to unite on these key issues? why does a trade agreement like ceta fail at the last hurdle? the ecr group is asking if the eu cannot even reach an agreement with a country such as canada – a country with similar environmental and labour standards – what hope do we have of telling the rest of the world that the eu is open for business? why could the 28 leaders not make progress? because there is a fundamental disconnect between eu leaders and the people they represent. with greater centralisation, individuals and communities feel weaker. here we use the language of compromise, coalitions, and semesters, but people outside want to know: will they have more money in their pay packet? will they be able to pay their bills? will the business they work for grow and create jobs? all too often these simple questions go unanswered. if leaders fail to address these concerns, fail to listen to the warnings, fail to make the case for decisions taken, then do not be surprised if voters in many of our countries turn to extremist parties offering simplistic solutions. i realise that our countries have different histories, and perhaps different interests, when dealing with russia. but responding to russia’s current actions is something which should unite us, rather than divide us. when we see continued violations by russia in ukraine and georgia, when we see the bombing of aleppo and its people, when we see russia biting at the heels of the eu’s external border, then the whole west should be uniting together in wanting to use what power we have. the eu only has soft power. but surely soft power should be better than no power. economic sanctions are beginning to have an effect on russia – but not nearly enough. yet even at this point, leaders could not agree to go further. now we see one eu country, spain, offering to refuel that same russian fleet that is likely to inflict more atrocities on the civilians of aleppo. what kind of signal does that send about our resolve? at this rate we are facing a future of the lowest common denominator politics. we needed a summit of action, a summit of clarity, we needed a summit of decisiveness. yet again, this is not what we got. it is time to open our eyes and see what is happening around us. just as each action has its consequences, inaction also has consequences. prime minister trudeau walking away from a canada-eu trade deal which would have helped create jobs and growth. putin walking into other countries unchecked and uninhibited. if this is the result of our inaction, do not be surprised if our electorate eventually punishes us. to counter the simple message of extremism, to regain the confidence of the people who vote for us, we need solutions, we need action, and we need a new direction, to break the gridlock that we currently face. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for the compliment; i will take any compliment i can get in this place. but, actually, it was quite clear: i think the answer was in your question. you asked, ‘should the council impose sanctions?’ the answer is a clear ‘yes’; sanctions have not begun to bite properly yet, though they are starting to work. we should not let up; we should have imposed more sanctions, and we should be looking at whatever instruments we have. other speakers have said that this morning, and we know we are not alone. if we are to show true unity in the west, we have to use what instruments we have, and we can use sanctions.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, so mrs smith goes to brussels and is given five minutes to speak at one o’clock in the morning. it is the same treatment that david cameron got when he came to announce the referendum, although at least this time the french president did not leave the table to go to the bathroom. when mr juncker was asked by a british journalist how the negotiations were going, he said, ‘pffft’ – well, i can’t really do gallic shrugs very well – and the impression is that you are simply too busy to even discuss brexit or to take it seriously. basically, you are hoping that we will change our minds – mr tusk alluded to that a couple of months ago. i know there has been a long tradition here, whether it’s with denmark, france, ireland or the netherlands, that when there is a democratic referendum you try to either ignore it or overturn it. today again, we heard mr juncker urging the dutch government to ignore the referendum result on the ukraine. frankly, the whole thing is a disgrace. it is even worse that it is supported by quislings in the british parliament – people like nick clegg and ed miliband, who are desperate to keep britain inside this awful single market. well, i am sorry but it simply isn’t going to happen. there are 17.4 million people who could not have been clearer. we voted to say that we want our country back, and in the end that is what is going to happen. i have to confess, though, that mrs may’s position in her five minutes was somewhat curious. for her to be arguing that britain must have a full vote and a full say in all eu affairs up until the time we leave is a very mixed message, and i have already seen this morning that some here take it as a sign of weakness. we need to get on with it. every single day that goes by is a lost opportunity. the proposed trade agreement with canada having been vetoed by walloons after seven years of negotiations absolutely proves to you that, in a modern 21st century global economy, the european union is simply not fit for purpose. i want us to get on with it, because this club is very expensive. we are paying in net gbp 30 million every day. some will argue it’s a bit less, some will argue it’s a bit more. either way, it is too much. we are helping to finance this monthly travelling circus to strasbourg and, worst of all, i have now discovered that in your staff regulations up to 5% of employees every year are allowed to retire five years early and receive full pay and entitlements for five years for doing absolutely nothing. nowhere else in the world would allow this sort of thing to go on. so i want us to get on with it. interestingly, i met a large number of scandinavian businesses the other day. they are worried. they are anxious. and why? because they know that the united kingdom is the eurozone’s biggest export market in the world, and they want to crack on. they know that the eu has trade deals with several countries in the world which involve no free movement of people, and their logic is: if we can do a deal like that with mexico, why on earth wouldn’t we do it with our most important trading global partner? that is common sense coming from european businesses and common sense coming from most people in the united kingdom. the only obstacle appears to be the high priests of euro—federalism in this room today. if you think that by delaying or stopping brexit you are going to help your own businesses and your own industries, you are wrong. it is in the mutual interest of all of us to get on with this and conclude a sensible, straightforward tariff—free deal. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – i certainly did, yes.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, he did it against the interests and will of his own people, and the point i am making about messrs clegg and miliband is they are refusing to accept a democratic result, just as mr juncker is refusing to accept the dutch referendum. there is something fundamentally wrong here.
blue-card question. – madam le pen, with the wallonians halting the trade treaty with canada, would you not agree with me that the british are better off leaving the european union, when we will not have to have 27 other people and wallonia agreeing to any future trade treaties? would france not be better off joining britain in a frexit so that france can have the same privileges to make her own trade treaties with the world and get france out of the catastrophic economic mess that mr hollande has put it in?
blue-card question. – in the light of the debate that we have seen this morning, where we have had the whole of european trade seemingly held up by one area and where we have had the president of the european union showing, in my view, absolutely unacceptable bias against one side, would you agree with me that now, in this madness that we have seen, the walloons probably have taken over the asylum?
madam president, on monday night, i spoke about brexit and its impact on ireland’s good friday agreement. this morning, i will focus on desperate refugees who are dying at the border of the eu, yet the council recommits itself to keeping them out rather than keeping them safe. rather than reassess the current obvious failings of europe’s asylum policy, the council seems content to continue with more of the same. over 70 000 refugees remain stranded at europe’s borders. almost 40 000 men, women, little boys and little girls lie at the bottom of the mediterranean sea. the eu-turkey deal agreed six months ago has failed all tests in relation to humanity and effectiveness. turkey has experienced a so-called coup and a criminal clampdown by the state. turkey is not a safe country. ask the kurds, ask the journalists, ask political opponents of the regime, ask the syrian child refugees being forced to work in turkey’s factories for eur 1 per hour. europe and the eu needs to do much, much more about this humanitarian crisis.
madam president, last week’s council meeting was attended by the uk prime minister, theresa may, for the first time. if she was hoping for an easy ride then she was sadly mistaken. with a warning from françois hollande that a hard brexit would mean hard negotiations, not the pick-and-mix many had hoped for or had alluded to during the referendum campaign. the reality is that britain’s future prosperity depends on having sensible negotiations with other eu countries, not the chaos some would advocate. membership of the single market, on which many jobs depend, is surely crucial for our economy. the resulting uncertainty has already seen the pound plummet, meaning higher food bills, inevitably affecting the most vulnerable in our society. i have been dismayed so far at the tone taken by the british government in regard to upcoming negotiations. we will not succeed in getting the best result for all by threatening, hectoring and lecturing. the prime minister needs a plan and it is clear the uk government does not have one. so stop the talk of hard or soft brexit because the next steps we take are huge. let us at least try and take them together.
mr president, earlier today mr weber made a defamatory statement against me which you supported. can i ask that both you gentlemen leave this building, where you do not have parliamentary immunity, and repeat those statements, so i can take legal action against you.
mr president, i said in this chamber that i felt the french commissioner jacques barrot was unsuitable to be a european commissioner because he had received a conviction for embezzlement and been suspended from public office. despite the fact that what i said was true, it caused a huge outcry. i was told that because he had been amnestied by president chirac under french law, it was an offence ever in public, in france, to refer to the incident. so there was a lot of speculation over whether the french police were going to come into this building and arrest me. but the president of parliament at the time said: no, that is not the case because the european parliament, rather like the united nations in new york, is an organisation whose buildings are extraterritorial. so that ruling was perfectly clear. how can it be, with that precedent having been set, that you can refer an alleged incident between two meps that took place in an official committee room, in this parliament, to the french police? can you please tell us: are these buildings extraterritorial or are we actually here, now, in france, under french law? (applause)
mr president, on a point of clarification, you said, regarding the incident in the parliament (if i heard you correctly) that you had referred this, or the parliament had referred it, to the french authorities. i am not an expert on french law, but i have been informed that the only person that can make a complaint about a crime is the victim of the crime. can you clarify: has the parliament has referred this to the authorities or has mr woolfe referred it to the french police?
mr president, martin, thank you. thank you, on my last day in the european parliament, to all of you in all of the groups, members and staff, for your friendship and for your cooperation. thank you to the british labour party and to the socialist and democrat group to whom i will remain for ever loyal, to my own family, sitting in the public gallery, to whom i will be always loyal too. i am proud to have represented my constituency, the east of england; it really is ‘bootiful’. i am proud, as a working-class boy who could never have expected to do so, to have represented my country and our continent. it has been a privilege and an honour to serve. i will always remember being here on the days of eu enlargement and of conflict resolution, of championing business responsibility on behalf of this parliament, and my new career will be true to those values and principles. i, my party, and many in my country, argued for europe, and we will continue to do so. we must take our responsibility for the referendum defeat, and i am sorry, when i leave this building, i do not expect to return as an mep. but if my country makes the historic mistake of leaving the european union, i look forward to the day when it will return. (loud, sustained applause and standing ovation)
in writing. – this vote was a series of budgetary amendments to set the spending limits for the eu budget for 2017. the commission had proposed an original budget of eur 157 billion, the council amended that to eur 156 billion, and the parliament was proposing to not only reverse the council cuts, but to increase the budget significantly. ukip and the efdd group submitted 33 cost-saving amendments to the eu budget, as well as voting in favour of cost-saving measures proposed by others. our amendments, which would have saved in total over eur 3 billion of taxpayers’ money, related to the cutting of bureaucracy. these proposals were for ‘victimless cuts’ which impact only upon the inner workings of the european union and luxuries for officials. ukip voted against any measures which would increase the eu budget, because it would be contrary to the decision of the british people on brexit. in some cases the additions would have duplicated funding streams already in place in the uk. exceptionally, we abstained rather than vote against where a new budget line was proposed to help member states leave the euro. there was no actual funding proposed for this, and we support the principle of member states leaving the euro.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the final resolution because we cannot support an increase in the budget of the european union, especially considering that the british people have already voted to leave and expect to stop paying money to the eu altogether. our group submitted 33 cost-saving amendments to the eu budget, and we voted in favour of these as well as in favour of cost-saving measures proposed by others. most of our amendments, which would have saved in total over eur 3 billion of taxpayers’ money, related to cutting of bureaucracy. these proposals were for ‘victimless cuts’ which impact only upon the inner workings of the european union and luxuries for officials. we voted against any measures which would add to the european union budget, because it would be completely contrary to the decision of the british people on brexit. in some cases the additions would duplicate funding streams which already exist directly from the uk government to the british people. exceptionally, we abstained rather than vote against where a new budget line was proposed to help member states leave the euro. there was no actual funding proposed for this, and we support the principle of member states leaving the euro.
in writing. ‒ this vote was a series of budgetary amendments to set the spending limits for the eu budget for 2017. the commission had proposed an original budget of eur 157 billion, the council amended that to eur 156 billion, and the parliament was proposing to not only reverse the council cuts, but to increase the budget significantly. ukip and the efdd group submitted 33 cost-saving amendments to the eu budget, as well as voting in favour of cost-saving measures proposed by others. our amendments, which would have saved in total over eur 3 billion of taxpayers’ money, related to the cutting of bureaucracy. these proposals were for ‘victimless cuts’ which impact only upon the inner workings of the european union and luxuries for officials. ukip voted against any measures which would increase the eu budget, because it would be contrary to the decision of the british people on brexit. in some cases the additions would have duplicated funding streams already in place in the uk. exceptionally, we abstained rather than vote against where a new budget line was proposed to help member states leave the euro. there was no actual funding proposed for this, and we support the principle of member states leaving the euro.
in writing. ‒ this vote was a series of budgetary amendments to set the spending limits for the eu budget for 2017. the commission had proposed an original budget of eur 157 billion, the council amended that to eur 156 billion, and the parliament was proposing to not only reverse the council cuts, but to increase the budget significantly. ukip and the efdd group submitted 33 cost-saving amendments to the eu budget, as well as voting in favour of cost-saving measures proposed by others. our amendments, which would have saved in total over eur 3 billion of taxpayers’ money, related to the cutting of bureaucracy. these proposals were for ‘victimless cuts’ which impact only upon the inner workings of the european union and luxuries for officials. ukip voted against any measures which would increase the eu budget, because it would be contrary to the decision of the british people on brexit. in some cases the additions would have duplicated funding streams already in place in the uk. exceptionally, we abstained rather than vote against where a new budget line was proposed to help member states leave the euro. there was no actual funding proposed for this, and we support the principle of member states leaving the euro.
in writing. ‒ this vote was a series of budgetary amendments to set the spending limits for the eu budget for 2017. the commission had proposed an original budget of eur 157 billion, the council amended that to eur 156 billion, and the parliament was proposing to not only reverse the council cuts, but to increase the budget significantly. ukip and the efdd group submitted 33 cost-saving amendments to the eu budget, as well as voting in favour of cost-saving measures proposed by others. our amendments, which would have saved in total over eur 3 billion of taxpayers’ money, related to the cutting of bureaucracy. these proposals were for ‘victimless cuts’ which impact only upon the inner workings of the european union and luxuries for officials. ukip voted against any measures which would increase the eu budget, because it would be contrary to the decision of the british people on brexit. in some cases the additions would have duplicated funding streams already in place in the uk. exceptionally, we abstained rather than vote against where a new budget line was proposed to help member states leave the euro. there was no actual funding proposed for this, and we support the principle of member states leaving the euro.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted today to oppose an increase in the eu budget for 2017 - we believe the first resort should be finding money for eu priorities within existing budget lines. we remain committed to the principle of prioritising the jobs and economic growth agenda whether inside or outside of the european union and hope to continue close cooperation with our neighbours as a means of protecting the uk economy.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted today to oppose an increase in the eu budget for 2017 - we believe the first resort should be finding money for eu priorities within existing budget lines. we remain committed to the principle of prioritising the jobs and economic growth agenda whether inside or outside of the european union and hope to continue close cooperation with our neighbours as a means of protecting the uk economy.
in writing. ‒ this vote was a series of budgetary amendments to set the spending limits for the eu budget for 2017. the commission had proposed an original budget of eur 157 billion, the council amended that to eur 156 billion, and the parliament was proposing to not only reverse the council cuts, but to increase the budget significantly. ukip and the efdd group submitted 33 cost-saving amendments to the eu budget, as well as voting in favour of cost-saving measures proposed by others. our amendments, which would have saved in total over eur 3 billion of taxpayers’ money, related to the cutting of bureaucracy. these proposals were for ‘victimless cuts’ which impact only upon the inner workings of the european union and luxuries for officials. ukip voted against any measures which would increase the eu budget, because it would be contrary to the decision of the british people on brexit. in some cases the additions would have duplicated funding streams already in place in the uk. exceptionally, we abstained rather than vote against where a new budget line was proposed to help member states leave the euro. there was no actual funding proposed for this, and we support the principle of member states leaving the euro.
in writing. ‒ the i did not support the increase in the number of posts in the european parliament when voting on the budget because i do not think that there is a need to increase the number of staff in our institution.
in writing. ‒ this vote was a series of budgetary amendments to set the spending limits for the eu budget for 2017. the commission had proposed an original budget of eur 157 billion, the council amended that to eur 156 billion, and the parliament was proposing to not only reverse the council cuts, but to increase the budget significantly. ukip and the efdd group submitted 33 cost-saving amendments to the eu budget, as well as voting in favour of cost-saving measures proposed by others. our amendments, which would have saved in total over eur 3 billion of taxpayers’ money, related to the cutting of bureaucracy. these proposals were for ‘victimless cuts’ which impact only upon the inner workings of the european union and luxuries for officials. ukip voted against any measures which would increase the eu budget, because it would be contrary to the decision of the british people on brexit. in some cases the additions would have duplicated funding streams already in place in the uk. exceptionally, we abstained rather than vote against where a new budget line was proposed to help member states leave the euro. there was no actual funding proposed for this, and we support the principle of member states leaving the euro.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non—binding motion for a resolution. the resolution called for the cuts proposed by the council to be reversed and more resources be given to the eu budget. ukip voted for amendments which called for cuts to the eu budget, opposed development of an eu military capability and also voted in favour of an amendment which said that no eu funding should go to bullfighting. the efdd group (which ukip is part of) also tabled an amendment which, among other things, called for a reduction in the salaries, allowances and travel expenses of meps. however this part of the amendment was ruled ‘inadmissible’ by the president of the european parliament.
in writing. – this vote was regarding the mandate for the ep to negotiate with the council, whilst we agreed with a number of aspects within this report, there were issues surrounding the priorities of the european parliament in this regard which is why we abstained in the final vote. we supported the inclusion of certain elements into the mandate, especially our amendment which was adopted into paragraph 4 which called for ensuring support for the north in the wake of brexit, this would encompass retaining programmes such as peace. whilst the ep position does restore all the cuts made by the council, it falls short on the cuts which had already been introduced by the commission itself. the best reflection of this is reducing cohesion funding in favour of a militarised ‘fortress europe’. the larger and wealthier member states who have been cheerleaders of neoliberal policies and austerity, have played a significant role in the negative implications for social and regional programmes. we could not fully oppose the report as voting against consequently meant voting in favour of the council’s position which is socially regressive, so we abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. the resolution called for the cuts proposed by the council to be reversed and more resources be given to the eu budget. ukip voted for amendments which called for cuts to the eu budget, opposed development of an eu military and also voted in favour of an amendment which said no eu funding should go to bullfighting. the efdd group (which ukip is part of) also tabled an amendment which, among other things, called a reduction in the salaries, allowances and travel expenses of meps. however this part of the amendment was ruled ‘inadmissible’ by the president of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. the resolution called for the cuts proposed by the council to be reversed and more resources be given to the eu budget. ukip voted for amendments which called for cuts to the eu budget, opposed development of an eu military capability and also voted in favour of an amendment which said that no eu funding should go to bullfighting. the efdd group (which ukip is part of) also tabled an amendment which, among other things, called for a reduction in the salaries, allowances and travel expenses of meps. however this part of the amendment was ruled ‘inadmissible’ by the president of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. the resolution called for the cuts proposed by the council to be reversed and more resources be given to the eu budget. ukip voted for amendments which called for cuts to the eu budget, opposed development of an eu military capability and also voted in favour of an amendment which said that no eu funding should go to bullfighting. the efdd group (which ukip is part of) also tabled an amendment which, among other things, called for a reduction in the salaries, allowances and travel expenses of meps. however this part of the amendment was ruled ‘inadmissible’ by the president of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this report, which proposes increasing eu budget commitments by over eur 4 billion, attempting to completely reverse the budgetary agreements made by national governments for 2017. at a time when national governments across europe are facing significant fiscal challenges this makes no sense and is an attempt to reverse the historic agreement the uk secured in 2013 to bring the eu budget under control after decades of rising spending.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. the resolution called for the cuts proposed by the council to be reversed and more resources be given to the eu budget. ukip voted for amendments which called for cuts to the eu budget, opposed development of an eu military capability and also voted in favour of an amendment which said that no eu funding should go to bullfighting. the efdd group (which ukip is part of) also tabled an amendment which, among other things, called for a reduction in the salaries, allowances and travel expenses of meps. however this part of the amendment was ruled ‘inadmissible’ by the president of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against including preparatory action for defence research in the eu budget 2017. since my election in 1999 i have strongly and actively opposed the militarisation of the eu. i have called instead for a civilian peace corps which could work directly with people in areas of tension to prevent conflict developing. i believe the eu could develop a new and positive global role in this respect. the defence proposal not only takes the eu in the opposite direction but it would actually divert money from other areas of the budget. many of my constituents in wales who contacted me on this issue will be disappointed that we did not achieve a majority in the vote to delete it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this budget put forward by the parliament as it reintroduces cuts which were decided by member states in the council. the budget put forward an extra eur 1.5 billion for the ‘youth employment initiative’, something that has arguably done very little to change the percentage of youth unemployment in member states. instead of throwing more money at eu schemes we should seek to use the money already allocated more wisely.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted to oppose an increase in the eu budget for 2017 - we believe the first resort should be finding money for eu priorities within existing budget lines. we remain committed to the principle of prioritising the jobs and economic growth agenda whether inside or outside of the european union and hope to continue close cooperation with our neighbours as a means of protecting the uk economy.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted today to oppose an increase in the eu budget for 2017 – we believe the first resort should be finding money for eu priorities within existing budget lines. we remain committed to the principle of prioritising the jobs and economic growth agenda whether inside or outside of the european union and hope to continue close cooperation with our neighbours as a means of protecting the uk economy. the uk’s contribution to the eu budget may be set to increase as a result of the fall in the value of sterling, down nearly a fifth since the referendum, due to the uncertainty caused by brexit and the chaotic handling of the aftermath by the uk government, particularly on the question of whether we will remain a member of the single market. labour meps will continue to fight to protect our constituents and the uk from any unfavourable deal and work with labour mps to ensure crucial areas of eu investment are replaced when we become ineligible for european union funding post-brexit.’
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. the resolution called for the cuts proposed by the council to be reversed and more resources be given to the eu budget. ukip voted for amendments which called for cuts to the eu budget, opposed development of an eu military capability and also voted in favour of an amendment which said that no eu funding should go to bullfighting. the efdd group (which ukip is part of) also tabled an amendment which, among other things, called for a reduction in the salaries, allowances and travel expenses of meps. however this part of the amendment was ruled ‘inadmissible’ by the president of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i cannot vote for this report for several reasons. i have no objections to most of the proposed budgetary measures, but i do not support the passage which proposes the creation of a new separate eu revenue. i see the possibility of introducing a new european tax in this proposal, and i do not support it. this would not be economically beneficial and would reduce the support of the citizens of the european union. we have enough taxes in the member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding motion for a resolution. the resolution called for the cuts proposed by the council to be reversed and more resources be given to the eu budget. ukip voted for amendments which called for cuts to the eu budget, opposed development of an eu military capability and also voted in favour of an amendment which said that no eu funding should go to bullfighting. the efdd group (which ukip is part of) also tabled an amendment which, among other things, called for a reduction in the salaries, allowances and travel expenses of meps. however this part of the amendment was ruled ‘inadmissible’ by the president of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today i voted to oppose an increase in the eu budget for 2017 as i believe that the first resort should be finding money for eu priorities within existing budget lines.
in writing. – the multi-annual financial framework is the long-term budget planning for the eu, which sets the maximum the eu can spend. the current period is for 2014-2020, set at eur 960 billion. when the current mff was agreed, david cameron came back from brussels claiming that he had achieved a cut in the european union budget. fast-forward three years, and we see the use of a ‘flexibility instrument’ and an emergency aid reserve which operate outside these mff spending limits. money collected from fines is no longer returned to the member states, but used to increase the eu budget through the back door. in practice, this has led to an eu budget of over eur 1 trillion in today’s prices over the seven-year term of the mff. this mff ‘review’ adds to the flexibility; unspent money in any area will be used to increase the budget in others. this resolution calls for the mff ceilings to be amended and for more resources to be given to the eu budget. anything which costs british taxpayers even more money in eu spending is inappropriate in the light of the mandate received from the british people on the brexit vote.
in writing. – we supported the inclusion of certain elements into the european parliament’s resolution on the mff revision, especially our amendment which was adopted into paragraph 4 which called for ensuring support for the north in the wake of brexit, this would encompass retaining programs such as peace. there were negative elements in this report especially in paragraph 10 where the term populism is associated with misinformation, the wording is problematic as it used in a general sense. whilst there are many examples of the far-right using misinformation to manipulate more impressionable individuals to participate in discrimination against refugees and ethnic and religious minorities, there are also far more examples in places such as ireland where left-wing parties like sinn féin who consistently challenge the establishment parties with regards to corruption and austerity and how people have suffered, are accused of populism in a negative manner and spreading misinformation, aka the ‘sinister fringe’, to invalidate the reality of the situation. with the mff we abstained on the final vote as we could not fully oppose the report as voting against consequently meant endorsing the council’s position which was regressive.
in writing. ‒ when the multi-annual financial framework (mff) was first agreed, david cameron came back from brussels claiming that he had achieved a cut in the european union budget. fast-forward three years, and we see the use of a ‘flexibility instrument’ and an emergency aid reserve. money collected from fines is no longer returned to the member states, but used to increase the eu budget by the back door. in practice, this has led to an eu budget of over eur 1 trillion in today’s money over the seven-year term of the mff. this review adds to the flexibility; unspent money in any area will be used to increase the budget in others. anything which costs british taxpayers even more money in eu spending is inappropriate in the light of the mandate received from the british people on the brexit vote. we therefore felt that we had no choice but to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the multi-annual financial framework is the long-term budget planning for the eu, which sets the maximum the eu can spend. the current period is for 2014-2020, set at eur 960 billion. when the current mff was agreed, david cameron came back from brussels claiming that he had achieved a cut in the european union budget. fast-forward three years, and we see the use of a ‘flexibility instrument’ and an emergency aid reserve which operate outside these mff spending limits. money collected from fines is no longer returned to the member states, but used to increase the eu budget through the back door. in practice, this has led to an eu budget of over eur 1 trillion in today’s prices over the seven-year term of the mff. this mff ‘review’ adds to the flexibility; unspent money in any area will be used to increase the budget in others. this resolution calls for the mff ceilings to be amended and for more resources to be given to the eu budget. anything which costs british taxpayers even more money in eu spending is inappropriate in the light of the mandate received from the british people on the brexit vote.
in writing. ‒ the multi-annual financial framework is the long-term budget planning for the eu, which sets the maximum the eu can spend. the current period is for 2014-2020, set at eur 960 billion. when the current mff was agreed, david cameron came back from brussels claiming that he had achieved a cut in the european union budget. fast-forward three years, and we see the use of a ‘flexibility instrument’ and an emergency aid reserve which operate outside these mff spending limits. money collected from fines is no longer returned to the member states, but used to increase the eu budget through the back door. in practice, this has led to an eu budget of over eur 1 trillion in today’s prices over the seven-year term of the mff. this mff ‘review’ adds to the flexibility; unspent money in any area will be used to increase the budget in others. this resolution calls for the mff ceilings to be amended and for more resources to be given to the eu budget. anything which costs british taxpayers even more money in eu spending is inappropriate in the light of the mandate received from the british people on the brexit vote.
in writing. ‒ i could not support a resolution that, by seeking to link the mff and the 2017 budget, could result in the mff ceilings being broken and increased national contributions. i do not support such an attempt to hold the 2017 budget hostage in order to achieve higher national contributions. the eu spending limits should be respected and we should not put agreement of the budget at risk like this at a time when europe is facing multiple crises.
in writing. ‒ the multi-annual financial framework is the long-term budget planning for the eu, which sets the maximum the eu can spend. the current period is for 2014-2020, set at eur 960 billion. when the current mff was agreed, david cameron came back from brussels claiming that he had achieved a cut in the european union budget. fast-forward three years, and we see the use of a ‘flexibility instrument’ and an emergency aid reserve which operate outside these mff spending limits. money collected from fines is no longer returned to the member states, but used to increase the eu budget through the back door. in practice, this has led to an eu budget of over eur 1 trillion in today’s prices over the seven-year term of the mff. this mff ‘review’ adds to the flexibility; unspent money in any area will be used to increase the budget in others. this resolution calls for the mff ceilings to be amended and for more resources to be given to the eu budget. anything which costs british taxpayers even more money in eu spending is inappropriate in the light of the mandate received from the british people on the brexit vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it updates the position of parliament adopted in 2013 and reflects the changes that have taken place since then, such as the adoption of efsi and the paris agreement. it is also a reaction to the fact that the uk, including wales, voted to leave the eu.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted to oppose an increase in the eu budget for 2017 – we believe the first resort should be finding money for eu priorities within existing budget lines. we remain committed to the principle of prioritising the jobs and economic growth agenda whether inside or outside of the european union and hope to continue close cooperation with our neighbours as a means of protecting the uk economy.
in writing. ‒ the multi-annual financial framework is the long-term budget planning for the eu, which sets the maximum the eu can spend. the current period is for 2014-2020, set at eur 960 billion. when the current mff was agreed, david cameron came back from brussels claiming that he had achieved a cut in the european union budget. fast-forward three years, and we see the use of a ‘flexibility instrument’ and an emergency aid reserve which operate outside these mff spending limits. money collected from fines is no longer returned to the member states, but used to increase the eu budget through the back door. in practice, this has led to an eu budget of over eur 1 trillion in today’s prices over the seven-year term of the mff. this mff ‘review’ adds to the flexibility; unspent money in any area will be used to increase the budget in others. this resolution calls for the mff ceilings to be amended and for more resources to be given to the eu budget. anything which costs british taxpayers even more money in eu spending is inappropriate in the light of the mandate received from the british people on the brexit vote.
in writing. ‒ the multi-annual financial framework is the long-term budget planning for the eu, which sets the maximum the eu can spend. the current period is for 2014-2020, set at eur 960 billion. when the current mff was agreed, david cameron came back from brussels claiming that he had achieved a cut in the european union budget. fast-forward three years, and we see the use of a ‘flexibility instrument’ and an emergency aid reserve which operate outside these mff spending limits. money collected from fines is no longer returned to the member states, but used to increase the eu budget through the back door. in practice, this has led to an eu budget of over eur 1 trillion in today’s prices over the seven-year term of the mff. this mff ‘review’ adds to the flexibility; unspent money in any area will be used to increase the budget in others. this resolution calls for the mff ceilings to be amended and for more resources to be given to the eu budget. anything which costs british taxpayers even more money in eu spending is inappropriate in the light of the mandate received from the british people on the brexit vote.
in writing. – ukip voted against this budgetary report giving consent to the use of eu funds. this vote was to approve eur 1 131 358 (60% match funding) for 800 redundant workers in estonia. the money will be used for things like payments for the cost of training, language training (since there is a large number of russian speakers), debt counselling, psychological counselling, study allowances and mobility allowances, etc. the application relates to 3 enterprises (which manufacture chemicals and petroleum products) in estonia that made 1550 people redundant. ukip opposes this use of eu dole money and british taxpayer’s having to pay for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. – 1 550 workers made redundant in 3 different estonian companies, 2 in shale gas production, including the leading energy company in the baltic states and one in chemicals production. the report outlined many of the positive elements of how the egf would be put to work such as debt and psychological counselling as well as a study allowance of eur 260 per month for example. there were also provisions for active consultation of trade unions, discussion with ministry of social affairs took place, discussing a possible application for egf co—funding. therefore to help the workers we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against approving eur 1 131 358 for 800 redundant workers in estonia. the application relates to three enterprises which manufacture chemicals and petroleum products in estonia.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary report giving consent to the use of eu funds. this vote was to approve eur 1 131 358 (60% match funding) for 800 redundant workers in estonia. the money will be used for things like payments for the cost of training, language training (since there is a large number of russian speakers), debt counselling, psychological counselling, study allowances and mobility allowances, etc. the application relates to 3 enterprises (which manufacture chemicals and petroleum products) in estonia that made 1550 people redundant. ukip opposes this use of eu dole money and british taxpayer’s having to pay for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary report giving consent to the use of eu funds. this vote was to approve eur 1 131 358 (60% match funding) for 800 redundant workers in estonia. the money will be used for things like payments for the cost of training, language training (since there is a large number of russian speakers), debt counselling, psychological counselling, study allowances and mobility allowances, etc. the application relates to 3 enterprises (which manufacture chemicals and petroleum products) in estonia that made 1550 people redundant. ukip opposes this use of eu dole money and british taxpayer’s having to pay for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary report giving consent to the use of eu funds. this vote was to approve eur 1 131 358 (60% match funding) for 800 redundant workers in estonia. the money will be used for things like payments for the cost of training, language training (since there is a large number of russian speakers), debt counselling, psychological counselling, study allowances and mobility allowances, etc. the application relates to 3 enterprises (which manufacture chemicals and petroleum products) in estonia that made 1550 people redundant. ukip opposes this use of eu dole money and british taxpayer’s having to pay for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate into the labour market workers made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns, due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate into the labour market workers made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns, due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary report giving consent to the use of eu funds. this vote was to approve eur 1 131 358 (60% match funding) for 800 redundant workers in estonia. the money will be used for things like payments for the cost of training, language training (since there is a large number of russian speakers), debt counselling, psychological counselling, study allowances and mobility allowances, etc. the application relates to 3 enterprises (which manufacture chemicals and petroleum products) in estonia that made 1550 people redundant. ukip opposes this use of eu dole money and british taxpayer’s having to pay for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that this time the funds from the globalisation adjustment fund are going to the so-called new member states. i have repeatedly pointed out the imbalance in this respect and finally there is a shift in the matter.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budgetary report giving consent to the use of eu funds. this vote was to approve eur 1 131 358 (60% match funding) for 800 redundant workers in estonia. the money will be used for things like payments for the cost of training, language training (since there is a large number of russian speakers), debt counselling, psychological counselling, study allowances and mobility allowances, etc. the application relates to 3 enterprises (which manufacture chemicals and petroleum products) in estonia that made 1550 people redundant. ukip opposes this use of eu dole money and british taxpayer’s having to pay for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ yet again, this is an example of how the european union supports people in its member states to face the adverse effects of globalisation. where workers in these heavy industries face redundancy, the eu provides financial assistance, expressing the core concept of european solidarity. although uk workers have not benefited from globalisation adjustment funds, this kind of protection from global markets is one of the marked benefits of membership in a large trading bloc, and this is one among the many reasons the uk must remain a member of the european single market in any future eventuality.
in writing. ‒ this report was approved in parliament without a vote.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome this report, which will help ensure that, as digital tools are increasingly used by public sector administrations, improving their efficiency, these tools are developed with the needs of people with disabilities in mind, helping to achieve equality of access for all. this is very much in line with the work the uk has already undertaken in ensuring integrated support for people with disabilities in digital policy, and achieving the same level of accessibility across the eu is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it will help improve government transparency for citizens. i welcome the commitment to improving access to websites for those with a disability. it is important that everyone should be able to access and contact bodies which make decisions that affect their lives. the uk has been at the forefront of the digitalisation of services and information and i am glad the eu recognises the importance of access to digital information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. we live in a digital age. all citizens should be treated equally when it comes to access to information. this directive is an important first step towards an all-inclusive digital society, ensuring that public sector bodies’ websites and mobile applications will have to be made accessible to everyone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. we live in a digital age. all citizens should be treated equally when it comes to access to information. this directive is an important first step towards an all-inclusive digital society, ensuring that public sector bodies’ websites and mobile applications will have to be made accessible to everyone.
in writing. ‒ we live in a digital age, and all citizens should be treated equally when it comes to access to information. this directive is an important first step towards an all-inclusive digital society, ensuring that public sector bodies’ websites and mobile applications will have to be made accessible to everyone.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. we live in a digital age, all citizens should be treated equally when it comes to access to information, this directive is an important first step towards an all-inclusive digital society, ensuring that public sector bodies’ websites and mobile applications will have to be made accessible to everyone.
in writing. ‒ this was not a final vote but a vote to reject the council position at the second reading. i voted in favour of stopping this legislation.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote to reject the council’s position on this regulation as it will impose strict controls which will help to avoid future outbreaks of plant diseases. whilst there was concern about the timescale for implementation, i believe the measures are important for farmers and producers in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it strikes a good balance between avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy and making sure that we have the tools to respond to large scale pest threats. strengthening health and safety in food is something that the eu does well. much of our food comes across borders and we ensure that the customer buys something that passes rigorous tests and meets high standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation as it sets up a robust and cohesive framework drawn up with a view to preventing contamination and outbreaks of plant diseases, as well as setting out measures to deal effectively with the consequences of the spread of plant pests. in a globalised world in which climate change adds an additional layer of uncertainty, it is necessary that all countries trading on the eu single market adopt a cohesive and comprehensive legal framework to protect their own farmers, horticulturalists, foresters and other operators from the spread of non-native plant diseases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation as it sets up a robust and cohesive framework drawn up with a view to preventing contamination and outbreaks of plant diseases, as well as setting out measures to deal effectively with the consequences of the spread of plant pests. in a globalised world in which climate change adds an additional layer of uncertainty, it is necessary that all countries trading on the eu single market adopt a cohesive and comprehensive legal framework to protect their own farmers, horticulturalists, foresters and other operators from the spread of non-native plant diseases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, the new plant health regulation sets up a robust and cohesive framework drawn up with a view on preventing contamination and outbreaks of plant diseases as well as sets out measures to deal effectively with the consequences of the spread of plant pests. in a globalised world in which climate change adds up an additional layer of uncertainty, it is necessary that all countries trading on the eu single market adopt a cohesive and comprehensive legal framework to protect their own farmers, horticulturalists, foresters and other operators from the spread of non-native plant diseases. this has direct importance to the uk and european food security, biosafety and economic viability of farming, horticulture and forestry.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in support of the proposed regulation on protective measures against plant pests. the new plant health regulation sets up a robust and cohesive framework drawn up with a view on preventing contamination and outbreaks of plant diseases as well as sets out measures to deal effectively with the consequences of the spread of plant pests.
in writing. – whilst the report identifies problems faced by the eurozone, it does not include the obvious solution (namely a plan to disentangle member states from the straight-jacket of the single currency), and describes free movement of people as ‘fundamental’. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report for two primary reasons. the report repeatedly describes the free movement of people as ‘fundamental’ to the european project. a project that has failed the people of europe. the report also welcomes ‘tax coordination’ across the european union and calls for eu investment funds to be used for social as well as economic ends.
in writing. ‒ whilst the report identifies problems faced by the eurozone, it does not include the obvious solution (namely a plan to disentangle member states from the straight-jacket of the single currency), and describes free movement of people as ‘fundamental’. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ whilst the report identifies problems faced by the eurozone, it does not include the obvious solution (namely a plan to disentangle member states from the straight-jacket of the single currency), and describes free movement of people as ‘fundamental’. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support a report that calls for implementation of the banking union, the need to address the lack of tax coordination through further eu powers in the area of tax, more fiscal consolidation, and a european minimum income. i believe that we need to look at meaningful structural reform if we wish to see a lasting economic recovery in europe and not just a transfer of more fiscal powers to the eu.
in writing. ‒ whilst the report identifies problems faced by the eurozone, it does not include the obvious solution (namely a plan to disentangle member states from the straight-jacket of the single currency), and describes free movement of people as ‘fundamental’. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the eu and the member states need to better implement the revised economic policy mix which aims at increasing investment linked to eu2020 policies objectives including quality employment, education, innovation and growth-enhancing policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the eu and the member states need to better implement the revised economic policy mix which aims at increasing investment linked to eu2020 policies objectives including quality employment, education, innovation and growth-enhancing policies.
in writing. ‒ whilst the report identifies problems faced by the eurozone, it does not include the obvious solution (namely a plan to disentangle member states from the straight-jacket of the single currency), and describes free movement of people as ‘fundamental’. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ whilst the report identifies problems faced by the eurozone, it does not include the obvious solution (namely a plan to disentangle member states from the straight-jacket of the single currency), and describes free movement of people as ‘fundamental’. accordingly, ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i would like to reiterate my call that the european semester must include a strong social pillar, including a gender equality pillar. macroeconomic policy must not undermine social inclusion, but rather stimulate truly sustainable and truly inclusive growth, with all aspects of social and economic policy being made compatible and coherent in working holistically towards that goal.
in writing. – ukip is very concerned about the health implications of tfas and believes that the uk parliament should be free to legislate on this very important issue. for this reason we decided to abstain on this non—binding motion for a resolution.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this resolution which called on the european commission to finally come forward with legislation to put mandatory limits on the amounts of transfats permitted in food. trans fats are dangerous types of fats mainly used in industrially-produced foods which increases the risk of heart disease more than any other nutrient. whilst there has been a general decline in trans fats levels in foods over the past decade there are still products on the market which contain 40-50% transfats (when the who recommends that less than 1% of total energy intake should be derived from them, at a maximum). furthermore, transfat-heavy foods tend to be consumed by those on lower incomes, thus exacerbating already existing health inequalities. it is well overdue that the european commission now follow the example of certain member states, such as denmark, and put public health first by imposing mandatory legal limits.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls on the commission to establish an eu legislative proposal aiming at eliminating tfas from the eu food supply chain in the long term, either through the introduction of eu mandatory tfa content labelling or through an eu legal limit on the industrial tfa content of all food. in principle i believe that these issues should be decisions taken by nation states, not at european union level, and therefore (particularly in view of the decision of the british people on brexit) i could not vote in favour. nevertheless, i recognise the health benefits which such policies can give when introduced. i note the relative success of the policy introduced in new york limiting the use of trans fats, and i would be broadly supportive of similar moves in the united kingdom. i therefore could not vote against this resolution. consequently, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip is very concerned about the health implications of tfas and believes that the uk parliament should be free to legislate on this very important issue. for this reason we decided to abstain on this non-binding motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip is very concerned about the health implications of tfas and believes that the uk parliament should be free to legislate on this very important issue. for this reason we decided to abstain on this non-binding motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i agree that a reduction in trans fats is a good thing for general public health, however i do not agree with the approach taken in this resolution. the inflexible approach it takes is a mandatory limit on trans fatty acids, which risks passing on significant price increases to consumers. i am also concerned that such a one-track approach will not help reduce trans fatty intake in the longer term. better labelling, self-regulation and voluntary agreements between industry and governments have all seen significant improvements in trans-fat levels in a number of member states. we need to continue to do more work in this area and should not just reject all the progress of the last few years in these areas. for these reasons i voted against this motion.
in writing. ‒ ukip is very concerned about the health implications of tfas and believes that the uk parliament should be free to legislate on this very important issue. for this reason we decided to abstain on this non-binding motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution because i am in favour of more effective action to reduce the intake of trans-fatty acids. high tfa intake is a particular risk factor in developing coronary heart disease. cardiovascular disease accounts for around 30% of deaths in wales, of which the largest single cause is coronary heart disease. i believe that mandatory limits on industrial tfas could help reduce their intake.
in writing. ‒ artificial trans fats are linked to a number of health problems, including heart disease, which is the leading cause of death in europe. labour meps are seeking to protect consumer health by demanding legal limits on the amount of trans fats in food.
in writing. ‒ artificial trans fats are linked to a number of health problems, including heart disease, which is the leading cause of death in europe. labour meps are seeking to protect consumer health by demanding legal limits on the amount of trans fats in food.
in writing. ‒ artificial trans fats are linked to a number of health problems, including heart disease, which is the leading cause of death in europe. labour meps are seeking to protect consumer health by demanding legal limits on the amount of trans fats in food.
in writing. ‒ ukip is very concerned about the health implications of tfas and believes that the uk parliament should be free to legislate on this very important issue. for this reason we decided to abstain on this non-binding motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip is very concerned about the health implications of tfas and believes that the uk parliament should be free to legislate on this very important issue. for this reason we decided to abstain on this non-binding motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in support of the motion for a resolution on transfats. artificial transfats are linked to a number of health problems, including heart disease, which is the leading cause of death in europe. labour meps are seeking to protect consumer health by demanding legal limits on the amount of transfats in food.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i am reminded of the film ‘groundhog day’, in which phil connors is doomed to repeat the same day over and over again, trapped in a never—ending cycle where he experiences the second of february time and time again, until he finally learns his lesson and – as with any great, or at least good, romantic comedy – gets the girl and is able to experience another day. that is comedy. this is reality. the reality is that the court of auditors, for the 21st year in a row, has issued an adverse opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts of the european union, which of course would be a very serious thing indeed in accountancy circles. if any business found that they had an adverse opinion on anything to do with their accounts at all, it would be treated very seriously indeed by the authorities if that happened time and time again. the reality is that the error in the european union budget is still at a level of 3.8% of the budget, which is far above – almost double – the 2% materiality threshold. that is just, of course, the errors that we know about. the reality is that we are not at a point where value for money is being properly assessed. i think commissioner georgieva is absolutely right when she says that if there were a road to nowhere but it had zero error, that would not make it value for money. i think what we have seen from this court of auditors report is example after example: whether it is the eur 3 500 on the panoramic spyglass, the eur 10 000 donation to a church, the eur 4 000 mountain bike, the building materials in slovakia that were charged for at six times the going rate, or the eur 100 000 on dry stone walls with no link to eu expenditure. the reality is that there are a lot of things that are going on here which certainly do not in any way, shape or form provide value for money. i would say normally that a report like this would put the european union on notice to improve or to risk losing support. i do believe that is what the commission is genuinely trying to do, but this has happened over and over again now. we are on year 21. i think this kind of thing is not the only reason for brexit – far from it – but it is part of the package and, if this carries on, the uk will not be the only country heading out of the exit door. ‘groundhog day’ is romantic comedy. it is not exactly shakespeare, but perhaps shakespeare would be more appropriate. i am thinking, of course, of the ‘comedy of errors’.
mr president, for over two decades, the court of auditors has refused to give the european union accounts a clean bill of health. if this was a business it would bring remorse and resignations, in the heart of a national government it would bring independent inquiries, but for the european commission it is a cause for quiet satisfaction. a 3.8% error rate may seem small to some, but it in fact equates to billions of euro. money taken from families and households and spent without sufficient accountability. i listened very carefully to mr de jong, who talked quite frankly about the effect that this has on the citizen and surely we must agree that, at the core of any effective government, should be trust between citizens and political institutions. taxpayers should have confidence that their hard-earned money will make a difference and not be misspent. these are not small matters and as some colleagues have indicated today, they are not matters of form or process. i think that for too long these institutions have actually turned a deaf ear to this and i hope that our former colleague, now the president of the court of auditors, will take a very strong view on these types of things.
mr president, having participated for a number of years in these debates, i can say that this report gives some encouragement and, as such, i would say bears evidence that the commission’s efforts are beginning to bear fruit. i compliment the commissioner. however, there are three points which i would make. firstly, that 3.8%, as said earlier, is still too high. errors invariably relate to the level of complexity and so i welcome the commissioner’s simplification proposals. secondly, i would say that the level of error in the member states remains persistently a problem and i call on those governments to give greater urgency to compliance. thirdly, while this report is, by definition, about compliance, i encourage the commission to give equal weight to outcomes and performance. too often we lack real clarity in objectives of eu spending and in consequence we run the risk of weakness in value for money and weakness in added value.
author. – mr president, at the last parliament session here we picked up on the issue about what was happening in calais, and i want to use that as the basis for what i say this afternoon. we saw some of the first children brought from calais to the uk only in the last few days, where they were greeted by the press saying: ‘my god, these do not look like children’. so you think, well, how do you expect a child who spent two years walking from afghanistan to get to the border of france to look? not exactly like the 13-year-olds, for example, that we might see in our own classrooms and our own streets. what we have seen at calais, and i think we have seen in a number of other places, has been a deliberate foot-dragging by the authorities, even to work with the dublin system to reunite those with families. we see a lack of dedicated staff for dealing with under-18s. we see children who are identified by ngos such as safe passage, who are then lost by the authorities because they have really got no system to deal with them. we see a lack of support to local authorities who are willing to accept unaccompanied minors, to provide them with school places and foster care. we see a lack of support for family members who may, for example, be not in a good situation to take on their young family members themselves. how do you feel as a 24-year-old living alone when you are suddenly asked to look after your 14-year old brother that you last saw 10 years ago? we know that there are significant issues around guardianship and child protection. we have known that for years in this house. we know it for children from europe themselves, as well as for those coming in. so is the commission satisfied that the new asylum proposals provide a genuine framework for looking after those children from the moment of their arrival to determination of status and beyond? or are we once again looking at the words, not the reality?
on behalf of the enf group. – the uk is about to leave the sinking titanic and i worry there aren’t enough lifeboats left for your children and citizens. there are 65 million migrants in the world looking for a new home, and they all want to land on the mother ship. let’s take a reasonable assumption that a quarter of them are children. where are the millions going to go? it’s interesting to note the changing language. until today every migrant was a refugee; now they are migrants. is this a change in policy? or are you at last being honest with your real aims to destroy our western civilisation? my country has taken hundreds of children from calais, and some man-boys pretending to be children. where were the french social services for these children? the french lecture us but they abandoned their responsibilities. i believe charity begins at home; but in the uk we cannot even help out own children in need. we need an extra 8 400 foster families; 80 000 are children in care; our social workers are at breaking point. we can’t do any more, so please don’t lecture the uk. finally when the titanic sinks along with western civilisation you will have achieved your goal and genuine child refugees will have been cast adrift, and that’s a real shame.
madam president, the number of what we call unaccompanied minors reached a record of more than 95 000 last year. those children – and this is the proper word to use, because we are dealing here with human beings, not legal entities – are at serious risk of abuse, trafficking and exploitation. they experience traumatic situations on a daily basis. i have visited the calais and dunkirk camp several times and i have seen hundreds of desperate children stuck in limbo. only last weekend i talked to yazidi children in a camp in kurdistan where the turkish authorities are doing nothing. i am particularly concerned today by the situation that will result from the clearance of the calais jungle taking place as we speak. beyond the issues of relocation and identification procedure, which must be ethical and compassionate, we must ensure access to education and put in place mechanisms to support and heal children who are very often experiencing immense suffering and trauma, often resulting in serious mental health issues. this must be done by taking into account the special needs of children with disabilities and young women and girls. i also want to highlight the role of non-formal and informal learning, including sport, volunteering, arts and culture, which by providing safe spaces for intercultural dialogue and exchange not only facilitate the social inclusion of refugee children into their new communities, but also address stereotypes, prejudices and discrimination in the host countries. we must act in a concerted way at european level to offer protection to children in the context of migration. a whole generation of children, especially girls and young women, face a bleak future without education. the eight-year-old yazidi girl i talked to on saturday is desperate to go to school. we need to invest in her future and the future of all displaced children.
in writing. – even as the process of dismantling the calais jungle began, the fate of about 1 300 unaccompanied child migrants is uncertain. both the british and french authorities haven’t done enough to re-unite children and offer them protection. now many of them are at risk of disappearing into the hands of smugglers and people-traffickers, adding to the 10 000 children who have already gone missing in europe. the camp has become a symbol of europe’s failure to respond to the migration crisis, as member states fight over who should take in those fleeing war and poverty. the refugee crisis hasn’t been met with anything close to equitable responsibility-sharing. while developing countries host 86% of the world’s refugees, the developed states turn their backs on the world’s most vulnerable people, adopting policies aimed at preventing refugees to enter their territory. there’s a chronic shortage of facilities and professional care available for child refugees. many will spend years waiting to be resettled, lacking access to education, healthcare and protective services, which feeds into longer-term issues. with the today’s oral question we ask the commission to adopt a clearly defined policy framework with a view to employing a comprehensive approach for the most vulnerable.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, ten days ago the complex military operation finally began to liberate mosul. whilst we should welcome the ultimate removal of the evil scourge of isis from a city of 1 million people and the demise of its regime, we should not forget that there will be a heavy price to be paid in human terms. the barbarity of isis’s war crimes is already clear, as reports emerge of civilians being used as human shields and brutal beheadings carried out, including of boys, to create a culture of fear and repression amongst the population. as well as many idps we must also be prepared for the movement of isis fighters. as mosul falls there is a credible risk that as many as 5 000 jihadists will escape the city and make their way to other islamist hotspots across the globe, notably libya, somalia and yemen. we will also see some reach europe, unfortunately. the battle for mosul is seeing a powerful alliance come together, from the air support offered by the us and eu member states to the iraqi security forces and shia militias on the ground. as the european parliament’s chair of the friends of kurdistan, i wish today to salute the particularly brave courage of the peshmerga forces of the krg who have, and continue to play, a vital role in the fight against isis in the middle east. they have proved to be one of the most effective forces on the ground and we should give them our thanks.
blue-card question. – i share your concerns, colleague. only last week someone involved in a major ngo in iraq highlighted to me how, with winter approaching, there is a severe lack of supply of temporary shelters, and there is a huge humanitarian disaster heading this way. obviously, as the situation in mosul changes, more refugees will be fleeing. will you join me in calling for the international community to be looking again at this and really looking at the number of temporary shelters that are currently being made available?
madam president, if we are serious about peace in the middle east we must control and limit turkish actions in iraq and also in syria. their presence complicates the situation in mosul and raises serious questions about their possible aspirations in the sinjar region. yesterday the turkish foreign minister stated that turkey may attack kurdish troops in iraq if it felt it to be in the national interest, before accusing the iraqi government of tying itself to a terrorist organisation, ignoring, of course, how kurdish forces are at the forefront of the fight against the islamic state. madam president, whilst turkey claims to be part of the international effort to liberate mosul, they legitimise their military forward station at the bashiqa military camp outside mosul, at the very time that the iraqi government has stated how turkey sends its troops into iraq without permission, hence baghdad’s repeated demands that turkish groups withdraw. we must all support a speedy end to the fighting in mosul and continue to respect the brave sacrifices of kurdish groups in the fight against islamic state.
mr president, last week’s eu-iraq cooperation council gives hope that the military fight against daesh in iraq, and primarily mosul, will soon come to a successful end. the eu has established itself as a key player in iraq, providing vital humanitarian and stabilisation assistance to millions of people affected by the crisis. the eu and uk have pledged to provide another eur 95 million in humanitarian crisis aid. this is good news, but i am worried about the political consequences of the mosul operation. what is our next step in engaging with iraq following the government’s declaration of victory over daesh? in my view, we must use our leverage to pressure the iraqi government to end the marginalisation of sunnis and other minorities. in the future this government must focus on good governance, power sharing, the reconciliation process and job creation. this is one of the main lessons of 2003 iraq. if we do not ensure peace and justice in iraq we are sowing the seeds for another post-daesh extremist organisation.
mr president, as chair of the iraq delegation, i made it clear our priority must be to help destroy isis in iraq, syria and wherever it resides. i salute the courage of the iraqi armed forces, and the kurdish peshmerga in particular, in their gruelling efforts to retake mosul from the murderous tyrants of isis. insha’allah they will defeat isis and drive them out of iraq. a year ago i flew over mosul and visited the peshmerga on the front line. the fruits of that military success are already being seen and, for the first time in two years, church bells are rung in bartella, a predominantly christian town on mosul’s outskirts. they leave behind, however, a bloodbath of victims – christians, yazidis, turkmen shiites and other minorities – and only now will we see the true extent of the underlying damage. the humanitarian challenge of 700 000 people needing help will be immense and so will the political challenge of what happens next.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this year nearly 46 000 afghans made their way to europe. they represent the second largest migrant group by nationality of the 327 000 registered arrivals for 2016 to date. the need for concluding a readmission agreement between afghanistan and the eu is therefore paramount. there are many in this house who are ideologically opposed to the very notion of readmission agreements and will oppose the joint way forward regardless of its terms. the terms in this case are fair and contain a number of provisions that cover the issues of unaccompanied minors, the elderly, the disabled and the vulnerable. furthermore, the agreement goes beyond merely concluding procedures for readmission and includes elements for assisting with the reintegration of those people who wish to return home. following the unprecedented numbers of people that have arrived on the eu shores over the past two years it is vital that our member state governments and the eu demonstrate that they are able to find solutions to what many of our citizens discern to be the number one issue of political concern at the doorstep. failure to do so will further propel the rise of the populist and the far-right parties and endanger the very nature and entire basis for the eu project. maintaining the confidence and viability of international treaties such as the 1951 geneva un convention on refugees will only be possible if we stick to its terms and properly implement them. nevertheless, and speaking personally, i believe that in the modern world of mass travel and communications a review of the refugee convention as it stands will be necessary in the longer term as it is no longer fit for purpose in the way it operates today.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, through the eu’s failure to tackle the migrant crisis it is now impossible for member states to resettle and integrate all those still pouring through europe’s borders. while i recognise that afghanistan is a country still besieged by political, economic and insurgency problems, the mass exodus of its working-age population is not going to solve any of these issues. in fact, all it does is make the nation poorer as those with the skills to rebuild head for europe instead. that is why i am calling for all migrants not under threat from direct large-scale conflicts to be declared as economic migrants and returned to their home countries. this measure should include migrants from many other nations, especially those in receipt of eu funds aimed at tackling the migrant crisis. how can the eu be throwing money at a national leader while at the same time declaring that same country’s citizens are refugees? it just does not make sense. only by taking drastic action now can we stop the influx, secure our borders from terrorism and help countries rebuild and develop.
mr president, as chair of the committee on development, i agree with everybody here who said that this parliament must be consulted before agreements like the way forward are signed and not just hear about them afterwards. i also think we are seeing a worrying drift in the eu’s relations with third countries because everything is being seen through the prism of the migration issues and no longer through the prism of tackling the root causes of migration, which are global poverty and inequality. that is why my committee has expressed reservations about aspects of the way the commission proposes to use development assistance, dci, to fund readmission for those not given asylum. we know that amnesty are saying that between now and the end of this year half a million afghans are expected to be repatriated to their country, mainly from neighbouring countries, not from the european union. if the european union is to spend resources, it must be on regions, to tackle poverty for all the people in those regions, not just to focus on the eu returnees. please commissioner, make sure you respect oecd guidelines on the use of development funding.
mr president, we have been hearing a lot about the push factors – why people leave afghanistan. certainly parents can see for themselves that along with a lack of education and employment there is no stability, they know their sons can be recruited or forced into so-called taliban jobs or maybe with al qaeda or is and they are at risk if they refuse, so their sons are sent away. returns risk further destabilisation on the ground. i really hope that we are looking at the cumulative effect of returns. we have seen over a quarter of a million sent back from pakistan to afghanistan this year alone, and we know that many more will be sent as well. i really hope that the european union is looking at the cumulative effect which is destabilising: people face reprisals, it stretches resources, it increases tensions and we risk setting off yet another refugee spiral if we do not get this right.
mr president, i believe stability and equality are the key issues that we need to be focusing on. the brussels conference on afghanistan endorsed an ambitious afghan reform agenda. based on this, international community is committed to giving afghanistan eur 13.6 billion. out of that, the eu committed to eur 5 billion. i agree with the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, that investing in the afghan people is a way of investing in international stability. but to make that investment worthwhile, we must support a political settlement between the afghan government and the taliban. i applaud pakistan and qatar for their efforts to make this happen. we in europe live in a time of austerity and slow economic growth. the european taxpayers are worried that the money given to afghanistan will be disappropriated. as you know, afghanistan features high on the global corruption index. commissioner, what checks and balances has the eu put in place to ensure that the money we give finds its way to those that truly need it, and not in the pockets of profiteers?
madam president, on 28 september, rtük, which is the higher board of radio and tv in turkey, issued a closure order covering 23 radio and tv stations, including zarok tv, a kurdish children’s cartoon channel. colleagues, what have spongebob squarepants or the smurfs ever done or said that can be called a threat to society? the zarok audience are children, who have been left staring at empty tv screens, wondering why they have been punished. the case of zarok tv, an entity with no political aspect, has led many of us to believe that the turkish government can ban anything kurdish simply for being kurdish.
madam president, i am very glad to see this resolution being brought for a debate in the european parliament, which i hope will allow the eu to engage in the important international process that is taking place at the un today. over the last few years, civil society activists, academics, diplomats and governments have worked to make clear to the international community that the humanitarian impacts of nuclear weapons are so utterly horrific that they cannot be justified under international law. together we must work to make that an international consensus, which will make our world safer and more humane. the international community has already worked to ban landmines, chemical and biological weapons, and cluster bombs. now we must work together for a world free of nuclear weapons. the eu and its member states must engage constructively in these diplomatic efforts next year, and i hope to see federica mogherini playing an important role in that as well.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first express my solidarity to those people who are victims, or whose properties have been damaged or ruined during last night’s earthquake in italy. i will take this opportunity to highlight the role of the european voluntary service (evs), which is celebrating its 20th anniversary this year. i will also share with you my ideas on how to further develop the evs and volunteering in europe more broadly. first of all, the evs and its scope: over the past 20 years the evs has offered volunteering placements abroad to over 100 000 people between 17 and 30 years of age, regardless of prior experience or qualifications. around 40% of participants in the evs are young people with fewer opportunities. they can volunteer anywhere in the eu, in our partner countries neighbouring the eu, as well as other partner countries in the world. they can engage in a variety of activities: working with disadvantaged people, on environmental projects, for cultural events, and much more. they can work with ngos, sport and culture organisations, private companies or regions and municipalities. so the evs is already covering a very broad scope, but we want more. we are promoting the evs to get more and new stakeholders on board, notably through our 20th anniversary campaign. in particular, we want to increase the number of volunteering opportunities by creating partnerships between national volunteering bodies, municipalities, enterprises, ngos and schools. we are working on a new type of volunteering project, which will complement the current grassroots approach with larger-scale projects, having a stronger impact on volunteering systems. we also want to work with all those involved to improve the quality of volunteering further, through training models, handbooks and toolkits, as well as to promote innovative practices such as online and workshop volunteering. crucially, we want to make sure that the skills acquired through volunteering are better recognised. this can play a part in helping young people find jobs. the commission is also working on a number of other initiatives to boost volunteering. to give young people more opportunities to engage in society, president jean-claude juncker, in his state of the european union address last month, announced the creation of the european solidarity corps. this initiative will give young people the opportunity to express their solidarity by helping others. it will help strengthen social cohesion and the core values of the eu. the first phase of the european solidarity corps will be launched soon, with the first deployments in 2017. we want to have 100 000 young people signed up to the corps by 2020. the corps will build on existing professional and volunteering eu programmes for youth, and mobilise established networks of employment, education and civil society actors across europe. it will be developed in close partnership with member states, local authorities and ngos. and there is more: the commission is encouraging universities to combine academic content with civic engagement by awarding study credits for volunteering. the socialerasmus initiative encourages erasmus students to engage in social and volunteering activities in their host country while abroad. the eu aid volunteers initiative, which focuses on humanitarian aid in countries outside the eu, is currently being prepared. the first volunteers will be deployed very soon. the asylum, migration and integration fund will support projects promoting the participation of third-country nationals in society and the commission is supporting the covenant on demographic change, which aims to create opportunities for older people to volunteer. regarding your question on the legal status of volunteers, this is a matter to be decided by member states, whose approaches differ largely in this field. the treaties do not provide the european union with the competence to harmonise national laws in this area. however, a council recommendation in the field encourages member states to promote the recognition of learning outcomes of voluntary activities. it also recommends the use of eu instruments that can facilitate cross-border voluntary activities such as europass and youthpass. third-country nationals can already volunteer in europe. in 2015, 951 of them participated in the evs. furthermore, new rules on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of activities such as voluntary service will make it easier for young people from outside the eu to take part in the evs. it is now up to member states to implement the respective directive. you also asked about the impact of volunteering on society and the economy. more than 70% of evs volunteers believe that their volunteering experience has increased their chances on the labour market. studies also reveal that there is a clear match between the competences developed through volunteering and the skills employers are seeking. three out of four employers agreed that volunteering enhances job prospects. the commission has also launched a new study on the impact of transnational volunteering on individuals, organisations and local communities. we will have the results in april 2017. finally, to your question on promoting eu citizenship: the commission is fostering eu citizenship, notably through the erasmus+ and the europe for citizens programmes. both of these programmes recognise the importance of volunteering, which is an essential element of active citizenship. every country has its very own tradition and culture of volunteering and there is a lot of variety across the european union. a few member states have a state-run civic service; in others, volunteering is organised by ngos, and some have a mix of different forms. no single system can be easily applied to all member states and i do not think we should try to do this. we should instead find a flexible approach that respects the diversity we have. the commission plans to map all existing national volunteering schemes to better exploit synergies between them. we are also currently funding several policy experimentation projects which should provide evidence for possible new transnational volunteering models.
blue-card question. – as a british mep i am concerned that, after our vote to leave the european union, my country may become isolated, and i am concerned that we maintain european solidarity and we maintain good relationships across the continent. i have particularly appreciated the support from mr weber, expressed several times in this house, for young people who voted very strongly to remain part of the european union to have their rights protected in the negotiations. so i would like to ask ms šojdrová what she thinks about continuing to involve british young people in volunteering, even after we have left the european union.
mr president, i want to also thank my colleague, silvia costa, for promoting this oral question to the commission. whilst the eu does not have competence in academic education and curriculum per se, it can be a formidable platform to recognise and promote the role that volunteering, together with sports and arts, plays in strengthening socialisation processes and for the development and wellbeing of societies and individuals, education for citizenship, and in acquiring lifelong transferable skills. initiatives such as the evs are more important than ever in times of economic hardship and high youth unemployment, increasing job prospects for young people. the challenge now is to ensure that they are accessible to the most vulnerable young people as well, and for people of all ages and horizons, including people with special needs, minorities, marginalised communities, migrants and refugees. in fact volunteering is a great opportunity for intergenerational learning and intercultural dialogue, necessary to build strong, open and inclusive societies. it must therefore be part of a long-term strategy to develop successful, functional and welcoming communities proud of their heritage and united in diversity. indeed, informal and non—formal settings, widely used in the context of community education and work with underrepresented groups, provide opportunities for active promotion of common values of freedom, tolerance and non—discrimination and for learning about human rights, including women’s and children’s rights. openness, tolerance, enriching experiences and encounters, intercultural dialogue and cultural diversity: those are the fundamental elements on which the evs is based – and so is the european project. particular recognition should therefore go to those who volunteer in times of crisis, stepping in when governments fail to act, such as the amazing volunteers who have done so much to help the desperate refugees in the calais and dunkirk camps, and also the british muslim youth groups, who were amongst the first people to help the victims of last year’s terrible floods in cumbria in my north—west england constituency, bringing together different ethnicities in a spirit of shared humanity. as a young person, i learned my values from my parents, but also from my experiences of volunteering. i am one of the people who was failed by conventional formal education, and i found my confidence, my sense of myself and my place in the world largely through volunteering. as a shy, gauche teenager, i joined a youth theatre, where, alongside our normal activities, we spent one evening a week volunteering at a centre for children with profound disabilities. these children became my friends, and i learned to overcome my fear of difference and to fight prejudice and discrimination for the rest of my life. later i set up many youth theatres and watched young people in my care, many of them troubled and excluded, learn civic values and transferable skills through volunteer projects in their local community and through pan-european and international volunteering experiences. they were doing as i had done: encountering the other through intercultural dialogue and practical action, thereby learning tolerance and mutual respect. i therefore welcome the commissioner’s statement, but i want to give a word of warning. volunteering must never be used as an excuse for national governments to cut public services, such as museums, art centres, theatres, libraries and youth clubs, which is, sadly, happening in my country under the current conservative government, who are replacing real jobs by exploiting the good nature of public-spirited citizens. volunteering programmes that go hand in hand with a strong social structure and proper investment in public services, offering young volunteers recognition and career pathways and valuing the life experiences of older volunteers, are what is needed in modern society.
mr president, i understand we are all here today – the few of us that have actually turned up, maybe 3% of all meps – to discuss how young people can volunteer, in the name of the eu of course, to help those less fortunate both in europe and abroad. my party and nation fully support anybody wishing to volunteer to help wherever the help may be needed. indeed, our former prime minister, mr cameron, spent 200 million on his big society project after the 2010 election with precisely this in mind. in principle, this was a very good thing. however, because it was political, and not social and local, it failed, and nobody now speaks of the big society in any way except ironically. which brings me now to the evs now celebrating, if that is the right word, its 20th anniversary. in reality, what it means is you are celebrating spending 20 years of throwing taxpayers’ money down the drain, and as if this was not enough, the europe for citizens programme will cost the taxpayers of our nations a whopping eur 186 million between 2014 and 2020. clearly, it is not fulfilling this objective as i see that the committee on culture and education is now developing another citizenship initiative called the european civic service initiative. just like every other eu project it is a waste of money, it is unnecessary and nobody has heard of it. while the eu throws money at projects such as this, public services are cut and there is widespread use of food banks all across europe. how many more schemes will you put in place that will be re-branded at ever greater and greater cost, to fail to achieve the same objective – to create a demos where there is none? while the ostensible goals of these projects are laudable, they are failures under any benchmark and are never really what they say on the tin, so i say ‘stop them now’. national governments already do these things. give them their taxpayers’ money back and let them get on with it. you are only doing this to make us all feel part of your nations’ eu superstate. please stop now.
madam president, with all due respect to our very hardworking rapporteur, i think this report is a missed opportunity. rather than really focusing on the concrete recommendations on how cap could contribution to creating jobs and growth in rural areas, we have ended up with a lengthy, repetitive and inconsistent report which completely lacks a coherent message, and that is reflected in the size of the voting list. of course there are positive elements in the report – highlighting the tools available to diversify and add value to agricultural activities, simplifying the cap for individual farmers, providing better access to services – these are all issues on which i can absolutely agree, but there are so many points lost in this wish list of demands. this was supposed to focus on employment, and yet it talks extensively, with excessive criticism, of intensive farming as a dominant model. what is that? it is not relevant to the core point and it completely loses the core point in a lot of unhelpful wish lists.
madam president, this will be one of the last times i vote on budget discharge, in common with other british meps. we have spent years shovelling money from the general population to people lucky enough to be working in the brussels institutions or in one of the parastatal organisations or the various groups of consultants, contractors and others who have turned the eu into a handy living. i am not really making the point that it would be good for the taxpayer – i have made that point several times before – if the budget were smaller. let me make a different point. think of how wonderful would be the boost to the economy if we released all of the people working directly or indirectly for the eu into the private sector to make things and sell things instead of sitting in eu institutions meddling with the business of everybody else. a lot of them are hugely qualified, well—educated, good—natured people with ambition and brains. what a terrible waste of talent that they should all be cooped up in the european union.
in writing. – ukip voted in favour of this decision and non—binding resolution to refuse the granting of discharge to the council. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. there is a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. according to the lisbon treaty, the european parliament is only supposed to grant discharge to the commission, however it has taken upon itself (and created a whole procedure) to grant discharge to every eu agency and institution. the council always refuses to cooperate because of this legal point and have been refused discharge by the parliament for the last few years. the refusal of discharge in this case does not include a decision on the closure of accounts, which should be decided at a later date. the motion for a resolution criticises the council and calls for more transparency. ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. – i voted in favour of refusing the discharge because the council refuses to provide the necessary elements for the meps to be able to effectively scrutinise the council expenditure.
in writing. ‒ this decision is to refuse discharge of the council. every year parliament goes through a procedure of discharge. this is where they give an opinion regarding how the budget has been operated and close the accounts for every eu institution and agency. legally speaking the lisbon treaty only gives them the power to grant discharge to the commission, but parliament has taken upon itself to do every eu institution and agency. this is where the problem arises with the council. because of the provisions in the lisbon treaty, the council does not cooperate with the discharge procedure. for the last few years parliament has refused discharge (which is more of a political statement rather than anything binding) because of this lack of cooperation. ukip’s general position is to refuse discharge for every eu agency because we do not want them to exist, so we will support this decision to refuse discharge. a proposal to close the accounts for the financial year should be taken separately at another time.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of this decision and non-binding resolution to refuse the granting of discharge to the council. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. there is a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. according to the lisbon treaty, the european parliament is only supposed to grant discharge to the commission, however it has taken upon itself (and created a whole procedure) to grant discharge to every eu agency and institution. the council always refuses to cooperate because of this legal point and have been refused discharge by the parliament for the last few years. the refusal of discharge in this case does not include a decision on the closure of accounts, which should be decided at a later date. the motion for a resolution criticises the council and calls for more transparency. ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject this discharge report because there is still inadequate exchange of information between the council and the european parliament. the council discharge has been continually rejected by parliament for this reason since 2009. it is of concern to myself and my constituents in wales.
in writing. ‒ parliament’s interpretation of article 319 tfeu clearly sees a distinction between the two institutions’ roles. parliament has an institutional power in the treaty to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament’s interpretation of article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union clearly sees a distinction in the two institutions’ role. parliament has an institutional power in the treaty to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament’s interpretation of article 319 tfeu clearly sees a distinction between the two institutions’ roles. parliament has an institutional power in the treaty to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of this decision and non-binding resolution to refuse the granting of discharge to the council. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. there is a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. according to the lisbon treaty, the european parliament is only supposed to grant discharge to the commission, however it has taken upon itself (and created a whole procedure) to grant discharge to every eu agency and institution. the council always refuses to cooperate because of this legal point and have been refused discharge by the parliament for the last few years. the refusal of discharge in this case does not include a decision on the closure of accounts, which should be decided at a later date. the motion for a resolution criticises the council and calls for more transparency. ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of this decision and non-binding resolution to refuse the granting of discharge to the council. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. there is a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. according to the lisbon treaty, the european parliament is only supposed to grant discharge to the commission, however it has taken upon itself (and created a whole procedure) to grant discharge to every eu agency and institution. the council always refuses to cooperate because of this legal point and have been refused discharge by the parliament for the last few years. the refusal of discharge in this case does not include a decision on the closure of accounts, which should be decided at a later date. the motion for a resolution criticises the council and calls for more transparency. ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ parliament’s interpretation of article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union clearly sees a distinction in the two institutions’ role. parliament has an institutional power in the treaty to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament’s interpretation of article 319 tfeu clearly sees a distinction between the two institutions’ roles. parliament has an institutional power in the treaty to grant discharge. the council has again refused to provide the parliament with its annual activity report, and the parliament has reiterated its call on the council to provide the information needed for the discharge.
in writing. – ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for eniac. discharge is a procedure whereby the european parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. eniac (european nanoelectronics initiative advisory council) is a research programme aimed at the integration and miniaturisation of devices and increasing their functionalities. eniac is set up as a private-public partnership, bringing together the eu commission and the member and associated states. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 356 000 and payment appropriations of eur 76 500 000. this vote was a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while of course ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayers’ money.
in writing. – the eniac joint undertaking was asked to provide further information to the committee on budgetary control on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the replies provided by the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking) were considered to be satisfactory. i therefore voted in favour of eniac’s closure of accounts for 2014 and in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this decision is to grant discharge and close the accounts of eniac (european nanoelectronics initiative advisory council). it is a research programme aimed at enhancing the further integration and miniaturisation of devices and increasing their functionalities. eniac is set up as a public-private partnership, bringing together the commission and european member and associated states. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 356 000 and payment appropriations of eur 76 500 250.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for eniac. discharge is a procedure whereby the european parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. eniac (european nanoelectronics initiative advisory council) is a research programme aimed at the integration and miniaturisation of devices and increasing their functionalities. eniac is set up as a private-public partnership, bringing together the eu commission and member and associated states. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 356 000 and payment appropriations of eur 76 500 000. this vote was a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while of course ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for eniac. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. eniac (european nanoelectronics initiative advisory council) is a research programme aimed at the integration and miniaturisation of devices and increasing their functionalities. eniac is set up as a private-public partnership, bringing together the eu commission and the member and associated states. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 356 000 and payment appropriations of eur 76 500 000. this vote was a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while of course ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge again on this report because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge report. the postponement of the discharge from april has enabled action to be taken to clarify some of the issues of concern to myself and my constituents in wales.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings (jus) bring together research and industry in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities, and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the jus in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings (jus) bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities, and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the jus in their many areas of work, which is of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the joint undertakings in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for eniac. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. eniac (european nanoelectronics initiative advisory council) is a research programme aimed at the integration and miniaturisation of devices and increasing their functionalities. eniac is set up as a private-public partnership, bringing together the eu commission and the member and associated states. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 356 000 and payment appropriations of eur 76 500 000. this vote was a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while of course ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for eniac. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. eniac (european nanoelectronics initiative advisory council) is a research programme aimed at the integration and miniaturisation of devices and increasing their functionalities. eniac is set up as a private-public partnership, bringing together the eu commission and the member and associated states. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 356 000 and payment appropriations of eur 76 500 000. this vote was a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while of course ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ eniac joint undertaking (ju) was a public-private partnership in the field of nanotechnology. in 2014, it was replaced by the ecsel ju following a merger with the artemis ju. in april of this year, the plenary voted to postpone discharge for eniac, with the rapporteur citing that additional reassurances were needed from ecsel, the successor ju, concerning the implementation of national procedures to ensure the legality and regularity of transactions. the s&d group voted in favour of discharge in april. since then, the ju has provided additional reassurances and the rapporteur proposes to grant discharge this time. joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the jus in their many areas of work, which is of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. – ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for artemis. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. artemis is a public-private partnership between the commission, member states, and industry and research institutes. it was set up in december 2007 for a 10-year period to establish and implement a research agenda for the development of technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 554 510 and payment appropriations of eur 30 330 178. this vote was a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while of course ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. – the artemis joint undertaking was asked to provide further information to the committee on budgetary control on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the replies provided by the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking were considered to be satisfactory while reiterating some concerns stated in the report, in particular regarding internal control standards. i therefore voted in favour of the closure of the artemis accounts for 2014 and in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this decision is to grant discharge and close the accounts of artemis. this is a public-private partnership between the commission, member states, industry and research institutes. it was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 554 510 and payment appropriations of eur 30 330 178.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for artemis. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. artemis is a public—private partnership between the commission, member states, industry and research institutes. it was set up in december 2007 for a 10—year period to establish and implement a research agenda for the development of technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 554 510 and payment appropriations of eur 30 330 178. this vote was a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while of course ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for artemis. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. artemis is a public-private partnership between the commission, member states, and industry and research institutes. it was set up in december 2007 for a 10-year period to establish and implement a research agenda for the development of technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 554 510 and payment appropriations of eur 30 330 178. this vote was a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while of course ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge again on this report because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge report. the postponement of the discharge from april has enabled action to be taken to clarify some of the issues of concern to myself and my constituents in wales.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the joint undertakings in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities, and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the jus in their many areas of work, which is of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the joint undertakings in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for artemis. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. artemis is a public-private partnership between the commission, member states, and industry and research institutes. it was set up in december 2007 for a 10-year period to establish and implement a research agenda for the development of technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 554 510 and payment appropriations of eur 30 330 178. this vote was a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while of course ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for artemis. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. artemis is a public-private partnership between the commission, member states, and industry and research institutes. it was set up in december 2007 for a 10-year period to establish and implement a research agenda for the development of technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 554 510 and payment appropriations of eur 30 330 178. this vote was a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while of course ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ artemis joint undertaking (ju) was a public-private partnership in the field of embedded systems technology. in 2014, it was replaced by the ecsel ju following a merger with the eniac ju. in april of this year, the plenary voted to postpone discharge for artemis, with the rapporteur citing that additional reassurances were needed from ecsel, the successor ju, concerning the implementation of national procedures to ensure the legality and regularity of transactions. the s&d group voted in favour of discharge in april. since then, the ju has provided additional reassurances and the rapporteur proposes to grant discharge this time. joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities, and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the jus in their many areas of work, which is of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. – ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for iter. discharge is a procedure whereby the eu parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on its implementation. iter was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years and involves the commission, member states and third countries. the aim is the research and development of a new source of fusion energy. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 1 168 800 000 and payment appropriations of eur 576 600 000. this vote was a decision regarding discharge (non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while of course ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, ukip’s general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. – i voted against iter’s closure of accounts for 2014 and against the resolution granting discharge for 2014 as to how the project has been handled, especially reflecting the large excessive amount of resources which have been allocated to it.
in writing. ‒ this decision is to grant discharge and close the accounts of iter. this was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. the members are represented by the commission, the member states of euratom, and third countries which have concluded cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion. the aim is to develop clean fusion power. the final 2014 budget available for implementation included commitment appropriations of eur 1 168 800 000 and payment appropriations of eur 576 600 000.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for iter. discharge is a procedure whereby the european parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on their implementation. iter was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years and involves the commission, member states and third countries. the aim is the research and development of a new source of fusion energy. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 1 168 800 000 and payment appropriations of eur 576 600 000. this vote was on a decision regarding discharge (a non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while, of course, ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, its general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and to the eu spending british taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone discharge again on this report because the european court of auditors did not give the eu budget as a whole a positive statement of assurance. the level of error for the year 2014 was estimated to be 4.4%, which, whilst a slight improvement on 2013, is still too high. it is the job of parliament to verify that the eu budget was spent in accordance with the rules and in line with the principles of sound financial management, and unfortunately the court of auditors found that was not the case for the year 2014. we need more simplification of key areas of financial management in the eu budget and a stronger focus on tackling parts of the budget with a higher risk of problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge of iter because there have been further delays over costs, which affects other aspects of the eu budget and which in turn affects my constituents in wales. we have yet to see the new project plan.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the joint undertakings in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities, and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the jus in their many areas of work, which is of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies, which is essential. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, and nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the joint undertakings in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for iter. discharge is a procedure whereby the european parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on their implementation. iter was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years and involves the commission, member states and third countries. the aim is the research and development of a new source of fusion energy. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 1 168 800 000 and payment appropriations of eur 576 600 000. this vote was on a decision regarding discharge (a non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while, of course, ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, its general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and to the eu spending british taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this decision to grant discharge and close the accounts for iter. discharge is a procedure whereby the european parliament looks at the internal budgets of each eu agency and institution and gives an opinion on their implementation. iter was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years and involves the commission, member states and third countries. the aim is the research and development of a new source of fusion energy. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 1 168 800 000 and payment appropriations of eur 576 600 000. this vote was on a decision regarding discharge (a non-binding opinion) and a decision on closing the accounts for the relevant body. while, of course, ukip supports international cooperation on issues such as this on a bilateral basis, its general position on discharge votes is to refuse the granting of discharge, in order to register our opposition to eu bodies and to the eu spending british taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ the iter joint undertaking is a public-private partnership in the field of fusion energy. in april of this year, the s&d group supported the rapporteur’s proposal to postpone discharge on the grounds that the long-awaited and much-delayed iter action plan had not yet been published. since then, this report has been published and on this basis, the rapporteur has proposed to grant discharge to iter. joint undertakings (jus) bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the jus in their many areas of work, which is of clear benefit to eu citizens.
madam president, i have voted in favour of this resolution. i am very pleased that the european parliament is constantly concerned with the question of human rights and democracy in the world and that we are not silent about the tragedy taking place in and around mosul and that we have adopted this resolution. my colleagues have already made this clear here, and it is good that the resolution includes the question of the minorities who lived in this territory and were expelled from this territory. there were mention of christians, yazidis, turkmen. i think we must do everything we can to enable these people to return to their homelands after the end of the conflict, and it is good and i read it that the resolution contains a commitment by the european union to help these people return to their homelands after the end of the conflict. the aid will have to be logistical, financial, and it's good that we're already debating how to allow these people to return after the end of the war and the defeat of the islamic state.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non—binding resolution. we are pleased to see the successful assault on mosul and the further dislodgement of isis strongholds in iraq. appropriate measures must be taken to prevent a further wave of migrants and refugees taking the dangerous routes into europe. however, the report contains several calls for eu action, which we cannot support.
in writing. ‒ i felt it appropriate to abstain on this resolution overall. i supported an amendment calling for the withdrawal of turkish troops from iraqi territory. there was much of this resolution which i could support, but also too much of a call for european union involvement in a situation which (internationally) should be considered by the un, not the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. we are pleased to see the successful assault on mosul and the further dislodgement of isis strongholds in iraq. appropriate measures must be taken to prevent a further wave of migrants and refugees taking the dangerous routes into europe. however, the report contains several calls for eu action, which we cannot support.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution which calls on all parties to abide by international humanitarian law, respecting the principles of proportionality and distinction, and to take all precautions to minimise casualties and ensure that civilians and civilian infrastructures are protected from bombing. the evidence of the war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by daesh should be preserved in order to ensure the accountability of all perpetrators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution which fully supports the iraqi government and international anti-daesh coalition’s actions in iraq directed at the liberation of mosul. it also insists that in the process of this operation, international humanitarian law has to be respected.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. we are pleased to see the successful assault on mosul and the further dislodgement of isis strongholds in iraq. appropriate measures must be taken to prevent a further wave of migrants and refugees taking the dangerous routes into europe. however, the report contains several calls for eu action, which we cannot support.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. we are pleased to see the successful assault on mosul and the further dislodgement of isis strongholds in iraq. appropriate measures must be taken to prevent a further wave of migrants and refugees taking the dangerous routes into europe. however, the report contains several calls for eu action, which we cannot support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which calls on all parties to abide by international humanitarian law, to respect principles of proportionality and distinction, and to take all precautions to minimise casualties and ensure that civilians and civilian infrastructures (such as schools and hospitals) are protected from bombing. the evidence of the war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by daesh should be preserved in order to ensure the accountability of all perpetrators.
in writing. ‒ i would like to join my colleagues in condemning the violence, persecution and crimes against humanity perpetrated by daesh in iraq and syria. i also join in calling on the eu and its member states to do whatever they can in order to provide assistance to daesh’s victims, particularly women and girls, and call on the international community to work for the safety, wellbeing and human rights of ethnic minorities in iraq.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non—binding resolution. we share serious concerns over developments in turkey, including freedom of the press. however, this report does not tackle the most serious underlying issue: that turkey remains an eu accession country and receives eu financing due to this status.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important that turkey should respect the rule of law and human rights. i supported amendments and an alternative motion for a resolution which called for the end of turkish accession to the european union. however, i abstained on the resolution as a whole as i could not support all of the text.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. we share serious concerns over developments in turkey, including freedom of the press. however, this report does not tackle the most serious underlying issue: that turkey remains an eu accession country and receives eu financing due to this status.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this motion, which highlights that a free press is an essential component of any democracy, as is due process, presumption of innocence and judicial independence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it condemns the recent police raids and the detention of a number of journalists and media representatives in turkey, underlining that these actions undermine the freedom of the media, which is a core principle of democracy.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. we are pleased to see the successful assault on mosul and the further dislodgement of isis strongholds in iraq. appropriate measures must be taken to prevent a further wave of migrants and refugees taking the dangerous routes into europe. however, the report contains several calls for eu action, which we cannot support.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. we share serious concerns over developments in turkey, including freedom of the press. however, this report does not tackle the most serious underlying issue: that turkey remains an eu accession country and receives eu financing due to this status.
in writing. ‒ the s&d group voted in favour of this motion which recalls that a free and pluralistic press is an essential component of any democracy, as are due process, presumption of innocence and judicial independence.
in writing. ‒ i would like to express my deep concern for the situation in turkey and the situation of journalists there, particularly in the kurdish regions. the recent coup is no justification for the ongoing government crackdown against civil society and media outlets. this dismantling of democracy is unacceptable. turkey must release all political prisoners, re-open all media outlets, and end violence and persecution of kurdish communities. i have recently returned from a fact-finding mission in diyarbakir, where i saw some of the impacts of the intimidation and violence in the region first hand. working together with civil society organisations, local activists, human rights defenders and journalists, i will continue to speak out for peace and human rights in kurdistan and elsewhere in turkey, in an effort to raise international awareness.
madam president, this debate comes during a period of great turbulence in the uk. one of the questions we are asking ourselves in the wake of our decision to leave the eu is: what is our place in the world? i feel very strongly that our place is alongside our allies as part of a peaceful and prosperous europe. in this context, the renewal of the trident nuclear weapons system is not only in breach of our commitments under the non-proliferation treaty, it is also inappropriate, anachronistic and misguided. it is disappointing that labour continue to support the renewal of trident, based partly on the idea that nuclear-weapons manufacture and maintenance creates jobs. in response to what i find an illogical and unethical argument, i have commissioned a report into the devonport dockyard which makes it clear that, for far less public investment, we could invest in socially productive employment to replace trident related jobs. i commend those politicians from all parties and countries who work for genuine peace and security in which nuclear weapons can play no part. using the multilateral negotiations for a legally binding instrument to prohibit nuclear weapons launched at the un this afternoon, we can finally rid ourselves of these vile and immoral weapons.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. nuclear deterrence is purely a matter for the currently recognised nuclear powers in europe, namely the united kingdom and france. we completely reject any attempt at eu interference in this and all other aspects of member state defence policy. non-proliferation is supported by a long-standing international regime, legally based on the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other international treaties, and supported by international institutions such as the un, the international atomic energy agency and others. we see no reason for the eu to potentially displace an already largely successful international norm.
in writing. ‒ i supported the alternative motion for a resolution by the ecr group, as it was unobjectionable and far better than the resolution as a whole. i voted against the resolution as a whole for a number of reasons, but fundamentally the key point is that it is not for the european union to instruct member states what their defence policies should be. defence of the realm is a matter of national sovereignty and i cannot support any resolution which seeks to undermine that.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. nuclear deterrence is purely a matter for the currently recognised nuclear powers in europe, namely the united kingdom and france. we completely reject any attempt at eu interference in this and all other aspects of member state defence policy. non-proliferation is supported by a long-standing international regime, legally based on the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other international treaties, and supported by international institutions such as the un, the international atomic energy agency and others. we see no reason for the eu to potentially displace an already largely successful international norm.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important vote which calls on the member states to vote in favour of a un general assembly resolution today which will trigger work on a new treaty banning all nuclear weapons. it also refers to the withdrawal of all tactical nuclear weapons from europe, the need to establish a nuclear-free zone in europe and to continue working on the conference leading to a middle east free of weapons of mass destruction. it criticises the modernisation of nuclear arsenals. as someone who has long campaigned against nuclear weapons and supported a nuclear-free wales, i was delighted this report was adopted.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. nuclear deterrence is purely a matter for the currently recognised nuclear powers in europe, namely the united kingdom and france. we completely reject any attempt at eu interference in this and all other aspects of member state defence policy. non-proliferation is supported by a long-standing international regime, legally based on the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other international treaties, and supported by international institutions such as the un, the international atomic energy agency and others. we see no reason for the eu to potentially displace an already largely successful international norm.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. nuclear deterrence is purely a matter for the currently recognised nuclear powers in europe, namely the united kingdom and france. we completely reject any attempt at eu interference in this and all other aspects of member state defence policy. non-proliferation is supported by a long-standing international regime, legally based on the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other international treaties, and supported by international institutions such as the un, the international atomic energy agency and others. we see no reason for the eu to potentially displace an already largely successful international norm.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has adopted a landmark resolution backing the historic process currently taking place at the un to negotiate a legally binding instrument to ban nuclear weapons. i am proud to have been a key player in the process to bring political groups together in order to reach agreement. the resolution gives the eu’s external action service a clear mandate to engage in the un process, and play its role as a promoter of peace and international cooperation. all of the eu’s member states, including nuclear weapons states, are called upon to support and contribute positively to the process. the aim of this process is to create a new international consensus that the humanitarian impacts of nuclear weapons put them in direct violation of international law, so that they could never be used legally. while the text of the resolution is emphatically strong on these issues, i did support amendments that called more attention to the role of nuclear-armed states, including the uk, and the need for them to move actively towards disarmament.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non—binding resolution. the resolution called on the commission to create new initiatives and expand the european voluntary service at the taxpayer’s expense. the uk has its own volunteering schemes in place, and we do not need another service at eu level.
in writing. – in 2016, european voluntary service (evs) celebrates its 20th anniversary. 100 000 volunteers have been supported in 20 years. parliament, and the committee on culture and education (cult) in particular, supports volunteering as an expression of solidarity that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and counters social exclusion, poverty, intolerance, racism, xenophobia and injustice, while making an important contribution to the dissemination of european values. the mfr focus on volunteering and its merits and how to improve it overall. there were many positive elements to the mfr and it was worthy of supporting to help the growth of volunteering in europe.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the harmonisation of volunteering services at eu level, interfering with national voluntary schemes which already exist. it seeks more taxpayers’ money being spent, and some of the suggested programmes are of questionable value. i therefore, whilst fully supportive of the charitable sector and volunteering, could not support this specific resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. the resolution called on the commission to create new initiatives and expand the european voluntary service at the taxpayer’s expense. the uk has its own volunteering schemes in place, and we do not need another service at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a better co-ordinated policy on volunteering. many thousands of my constituents in wales are engaged in volunteering in a wide range of organisations and projects. giving them a proper legal status would help improve skills and encourage others to join in. the work done by volunteers should also count as ‘co-funding’ for eu grants.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion, which calls on the commission to develop a more coordinated european volunteering policy. volunteering is key towards building solidarity and responsibility, which contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and personal development. it is an essential tool for social inclusion and cohesion, as well as training, education and intercultural dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as the eu needs a better coordinated policy on volunteering, to give volunteers a proper legal status and help them join programmes.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. the resolution called on the commission to create new initiatives and expand the european voluntary service at the taxpayer’s expense. the uk has its own volunteering schemes in place, and we do not need another service at eu level.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. the resolution called on the commission to create new initiatives and expand the european voluntary service at the taxpayer’s expense. the uk has its own volunteering schemes in place, and we do not need another service at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion which calls on the commission to facilitate the development of a more coordinated european volunteering policy. the european voluntary service (evs) celebrates its 20th anniversary and 100 000 volunteers have been supported over those 20 years. volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and to personal human development. it is an essential tool for social inclusion and cohesion, as well as training, education and intercultural dialogue, while making an important contribution to the dissemination of european values. its benefits are also recognised in voluntary work carried out with third countries as a strategic tool for fostering mutual understanding and intercultural relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion which calls on the commission to facilitate the development of a more coordinated european volunteering policy. the european voluntary service (evs) celebrates its 20th anniversary and 100 000 volunteers have been supported over those 20 years. volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and to personal human development. it is an essential tool for social inclusion and cohesion, as well as training, education and intercultural dialogue, while making an important contribution to the dissemination of european values. its benefits are also recognised in voluntary work carried out with third countries as a strategic tool for fostering mutual understanding and intercultural relations.
in writing. ‒ the eu does not have a competence in academic education and curriculum per se. however, it can be a formidable platform to recognise and promote the role that volunteering, together with sports and arts, play in strengthening socialisation processes and for the development and wellbeing of societies and individuals, education for citizenship and in acquiring lifelong transferable skills. initiatives such as the european voluntary service are more important than ever in times of economic hardship and high youth unemployment, increasing job prospects for young people. the challenge now is to ensure that they are accessible to the most vulnerable young people as well, and for people of ages and all horizons, including people with special needs, minorities, marginalised communities, migrants and refugees. i therefore very much welcomed the resolution and voted in favour.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non—binding initiative, which bears reference to an increase in funding for current programmes and calls for interference in member states’ education systems and the harmonisation of eu youth policies, at local and member state level. these are competencies of the individual member states and are not for the eu to dictate, therefore we cannot support this initiative.
in writing. ‒ once again this report calls for more eu action and greater coordination at eu level. in the light of the recent brexit vote in the uk, i cannot go against the expressed wish of the british people in terms of harmonisation and therefore felt it important to vote against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding initiative, which bears reference to an increase in funding for current programmes and calls for interference in member states’ education systems and the harmonisation of eu youth policies, at local and member state level. these are competencies of the individual member states and are not for the eu to dictate, therefore we cannot support this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which provides relevant assessments of eu actions in the field of youth policy and recommends priorities for the upcoming years, focusing on education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and welfare, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth and the world and creativity and culture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which provides a relevant assessment of the actions undertaken by the eu in the field of youth policy and gives positive recommendations on the priorities for the next few years, focusing on education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and welfare, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth and the world, creativity and culture.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has hit young people particularly hard. the disparity between certain categories of young people has also grown, while some of them have increasingly lost their place in social and civil life. this situation is further aggravated by the fact that, in some cases, there is a risk of social passivity, exclusion and isolation and even violent radicalisation. i voted in favour of the report which provides a relevant assessment of the actions undertaken by the eu in the field of youth policy and gives positive recommendations on the priorities for the next few years, focusing on education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and welfare, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth and the world, creativity and culture.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding initiative, which bears reference to an increase in funding for current programmes and calls for interference in member states’ education systems and the harmonisation of eu youth policies, at local and member state level. these are competencies of the individual member states and are not for the eu to dictate, therefore we cannot support this initiative.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding initiative, which bears reference to an increase in funding for current programmes and calls for interference in member states’ education systems and the harmonisation of eu youth policies, at local and member state level. these are competencies of the individual member states and are not for the eu to dictate, therefore we cannot support this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has hit young people particularly hard. the disparity between certain categories of young people has also grown, while some of them have increasingly lost their place in social and civil life. this situation is further aggravated by the fact that, in some cases, there is a risk of social passivity, exclusion and isolation and even violent radicalisation. i voted in favour of the report which provides a relevant assessment of the actions undertaken by the eu in the field of youth policy and gives positive recommendations on the priorities for the next few years, focusing on education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and welfare, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth and the world, creativity and culture.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has hit young people particularly hard. the disparity between certain categories of young people has also grown, while some of them have increasingly lost their place in social and civil life. this situation is further aggravated by the fact that, in some cases, there is a risk of social passivity, exclusion and isolation and even violent radicalisation. i voted in favour of the report which provides a relevant assessment of the actions undertaken by the eu in the field of youth policy and gives positive recommendations on the priorities for the next few years, focusing on education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and welfare, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth and the world, creativity and culture.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has hit young people particularly hard. the disparity between certain categories of young people has also grown, while some of them have increasingly lost their place in social and civil life. this situation is further aggravated by the fact that, in some cases, there is a risk of social passivity, exclusion and isolation and even violent radicalisation. i voted in favour of the report which provides a relevant assessment of the actions undertaken by the eu in the field of youth policy and gives positive recommendations on the priorities for the next few years, focusing on education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and welfare, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth and the world, creativity and culture.
in writing. – we oppose this because of its lack of realism in understanding both how markets work and the current fiscal climate.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which i shadowed through the agriculture committee. this report takes stock of how reforms since 2013 have been working in terms of job creation in rural areas, and looks forward to a cap post-2020. after consulting with various interested parties in my constituency, i tabled a number amendments that would sought to draw attention to the devastating impact austerity policies have had on the social fabric of rural areas. i was happy that the majority of my amendments were included in the final report, so that the final result was a progressive text. of note are paragraphs on the skills migrant workers and refugees can bring to rural areas, the needs for more supports for women in farming, the need to bring more equality to the way cap is distributed and the need to strengthen social security, services and infrastructure in rural areas to promote job growth.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to achieve the impossible. it seeks to increase eu intervention and increase environmental regulation on farming, whilst simultaneously reducing the burden of bureaucracy on farmers. it adds further targets and objectives. the non-legislative own-initiative report seeks to assist rural job creation, but to achieve this would require more taxpayers’ money. i do not oppose taxpayers’ money being spent on farming subsidies, but this should be done by the united kingdom directly, not through the european union. the comments on refugees are ill-conceived and confused; there is no reason for a report on rural job creation to discuss the refugee situation. i therefore voted against this rather confused report.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this because of its lack of realism in understanding both how markets work and the current fiscal climate.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which highlights how the cap can be a force for employment in rural areas, both in farming and beyond. this report outlines the reasons for falling rates of employment in the primary sector following the advances in intensification of european agriculture. the report highlights mechanisms to create employment beyond agriculture. crucially, the report points out the role of local, bottom-up initiatives such as the leader approach, which can galvanise the support of local communities and help orientate public funds. it also emphasises the role of women in rural areas as well as the contribution of non-agricultural sectors, such as forestry and tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which offers a positive narrative on how the cap can be a force for employment generation in rural areas, both in farming and beyond. the report addresses the question of falling rates of employment in the primary sector following the advances in intensification of european agriculture. the report also presents a range of tools to stimulate employment beyond agriculture. importantly, the report points out the role of local, bottom-up initiatives such as the leader approach which can galvanise the support of local communities and help orientating public funds where they could be most effective in enhancing entrepreneurship and employment generation. it also emphasises the role of women in rural areas as well as a contribution from non-agricultural sectors, such as forestry and tourism.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this because of its lack of realism in understanding both how markets work and the current fiscal climate.
in writing. ‒ in voting on this report, i unfortunately had to vote against the proposal because, in addition to the positive elements, it contains a number of points with which i cannot agree in any way. as an example, the resolution includes a passage calling for 'policies' to promote the positive impact of migration on the labour market. i think that's not the job of european union policy. i am also disturbed by what i believe to be an unwarranted criticism of free trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this because of its lack of realism in understanding both how markets work and the current fiscal climate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which explores how the cap rules and budgetary spending can be optimised in order to enable this policy to play a bigger role in promotion of employment in the rural areas. it discusses the reasons driving rural depopulation and economic stagnation in the european countryside, induced partly by negative impacts of the intensification of farming and globalisation. an important positive contribution presented by this report focuses on highlighting the role of cap’s rural development measures, local initiatives and approaches (including leader) and measures to strengthen rural-urban links. the report also explores solutions to enhance rural entrepreneurship and diversification of economic activity away from farming, including through innovation, improvements in rural infrastructure and public services, etc. moreover, the report calls for action in favour of integrating rural communities more strongly thanks to tools addressed specifically to migrant workers and women in order to improve their often more disadvantaged situation in rural economies.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has hit young people particularly hard. the disparity between certain categories of young people has also grown, while some of them have increasingly lost their place in social and civil life. this situation is further aggravated by the fact that, in some cases, there is a risk of social passivity, exclusion and isolation and even violent radicalisation. i voted in favour of the report which provides a relevant assessment of the actions undertaken by the eu in the field of youth policy and gives positive recommendations on the priorities for the next few years, focusing on education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and welfare, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth and the world, creativity and culture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which offers a valuable contribution to the debate on how public support can best reflect the needs of rural economies. it addresses the question of falling rates of employment in the primary sector following the advances in intensification of european agriculture. the report also introduces a range of tools to stimulate employment beyond agriculture. importantly, the report points out the role of local, bottom-up initiatives such as the leader approach which can galvanise the support of local communities and help orientate public funds where they could be most effective in enhancing entrepreneurship, and employment for the young generation, for example. the report also emphasises the role of women in rural areas as well as the unique contribution from non-agricultural sectors, such as forestry, arts and tourism to the sustainability of remote communities.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, we, the british, are time lords. we invented the time machine – hg wells did that – and we invented doctor who, who used it to travel through all of time and space. so actually, we invented time itself in the form of greenwich meantime, the world standard and a world first. once we had also invented the railway, we forced time standardisation, and it happened in my constituency. in the 1840s and 1850s, the best railway in the world – the great western railway, engineered by the greatest engineer of his day, isambard kingdom brunel – necessitated that a model of time zones be brought into the age of technology. in 1825, the fastest anyone could go was dictated by the speed of a horse – about 20 mph maximum, in very short bursts. railways changed everything, and for the better. this is relevant because, as a scientist, i know that we need to be practical. what works best to meet the needs of ordinary people in a changing world? the answer is straightforward. ordinary people want to maximise daylight and do as much as possible during the daylight hours. i want my country to take the lead again. we are, after all, the lords of time. we must determine rationally how we can absolutely maximise the availability of daylight for ordinary people and then apply it. thus, once again, the rest of the world can follow our lead into a better, brighter, and (hopefully) a sunnier future, just as they should now over brexit.
madam president, each time mario draghi visits this parliament i eagerly look forward to it. he tells us how well the eurozone is functioning and how strongly the economic recovery on the european continent is going along. nothing could be further from the truth. the macroeconomic forecasts about growth, productivity and employment rates are painfully low. in 2015 the youth unemployment rate in greece, spain and italy was reaching levels of 40% to 50%. the gap between the countries in the north and the south of the eurozone is becoming even bigger. only naive euro-federalists believe that the euro is good for the citizens and that the euro project is creating wealth and economic growth. mario draghi and his european central bank are ruining this continent. mr draghi, you still believe, with your unconventional monetary policy, that you are stabilising the economy. but, in reality, you are creating massive financial bubbles that will burst sooner or later and will trigger a new financial crisis. as a consequence, the political groups in this house that are still supporting the crazy monetary policy of the ecb are taking a monstrous responsibility. it was the libertarian philosopher ayn rand who wrote, ‘you can avoid reality, but you cannot ignore the consequences of avoiding reality’. even the former eu commissioner frits bolkestein, who created the internal market, said last weekend in the dutch and flemish press that the euro will die in the next few years, and he is right. we in great britain do not want your fairy-tale politics any longer. that is the reason why, as great britain never wanted to join the euro project, we are now leaving. great britain has had enough of the single market and that is the reason why we will leave the european union – the sooner the better. scotland will go with us too, despite the fantasies of our first minister.
blue-card question. – a very, very, good speech, mr flanagan, as always. i just wanted to know. you and i were concerned before about whether mr draghi had appeared before the irish parliament and the committees of the irish parliament. did that ever happen? could you enlighten us all?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, enhanced international competition in consumer markets certainly has the potential to give customers a better deal for insurance, banking, savings, investments and much else besides. in some product markets, benefits from competition are fairly straightforward to attain, but in retail financial services there are clearly complexities to be overcome in order to boost international competition. many products rely on putative income streams or pay—outs far into the future, while charging regimes can be opaque, and let us not forget we are dealing with high value items designed to make a big difference to a person’s standard of life. this is not a pair of socks or a new pencil sharpener. the potential complexity of pursuing cross—border redress is one factor that has led thus far to pragmatic consumers tending to stick with suppliers from their own country of origin or residence. but, given the potentially large gains to consumers of being able to access the best advice and widest choice of products from across the world, europe’s countries would do well to keep working at bringing down barriers in this field. as a world leader in retail financial services, the united kingdom has much to offer the savers, investors and future pensioners of europe. any bid by the eu to use brexit as a pretext for closing down consumer choice would leave europe’s citizens facing a less prosperous and less secure future. governments would be failing in their duty were they to allow this to happen.
mr president, the ability for everyone to access high-quality, safe and affordable financial services has become increasingly important. olle ludvigsson’s report offers many suggestions on how we can encourage new growth areas, including cross-border services. but, of course, we also need to consider how we can better protect consumers. people can be financially excluded in many different ways; they may lack safe ways to borrow, encouraging them to turn to payday lenders or loan sharks, or they may be unable to access funds and services across countries – with one of my constituents finding it next to impossible to access funds stolen from her family by the national socialists mainly because of administrative impediments. so i am really pleased the rapporteur has taken on board many of my concerns, from calling for a simple, safe and portable financial products framework to acknowledging issues arising from the digital divide, to making sure incentive structures for staff in financial services do not promote mis-selling or inappropriate cross-selling, to advocating rigorous and consistent enforcement of consumer protection across states. british consumers have been subject to many of the same sharp practices and scandals as other europeans. so i hope the uk government will follow and emulate developments at eu level to improve retail financial services, rather than trail behind them.
mr president, my group supports parliament’s response to the commission green paper on retail financial services. the report rightly points out that a single approach to retail services across the eu would be counter-productive at the moment, given the diversity of actors and the different products on the market, which are often tailored to local markets. however, there are definitely improvements that can be made to the status quo, which the report highlights. for example, i am pleased that our amendments calling for the sector to work better for consumers, start—ups, investors and smes through delivering a healthy and competitive environment were adopted. i also support the emphasis placed on the simplification of legislation, the opportunities for digitalisation and fintech, the benefits of switching, and the financial education of consumers. we do, though, have concerns. for example, the creation of a common tax identification number is not something i support, as it goes beyond the competences of the eu. for this reason my group will vote against this provision. i am also baffled as to why there are calls in this report for more member states to adopt the euro. that has nothing to do with this report. i will also not be supporting amendments from colleagues calling on the european supervisory authorities to increase their activities on consumers’ and retail investors’ issues. we need to be careful about duplication of existing structures in member states and ensure that taxpayers’ money is well spent. the call to intensify work against geoblocking in the financial sector should not be legislative at this stage. my group agrees with the commission approach of a financial services carve-out, due to its complexity. on the whole, this is a good report with some positive recommendations for the retail financial services sector and we thank mr ludvigsson for his good work.
madam president, the big challenge is how to kick-start economic growth and create new jobs. banks are key players in achieving this goal by bolstering the eu economy. however, we have to ensure that banks are stable and well capitalised because they are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. as co-legislator, parliament needs to assess carefully the qualitative and the quantitative impact of these new reforms on the european economy, in particular the financing of infrastructure and real assets. therefore we need to be mindful that we are not disadvantaging the european competitive position. but to do this we need to recognise that we must speak with one voice. global developments in recent weeks mean there is a potential impact due to the result of the american elections. it is now unclear whether the us will stick to its commitments, and it may well be that basel iii/iv gets kicked into the long grass. vice-president dombrovskis, in the committee a fortnight ago, you were clear in saying that anything that leads to significant increases in overall capital requirements on europe’s banking sector would be unacceptable to the commission. are you concerned about recent developments across the atlantic, and about the potential implications for the finalisation of basel iii?
madam president, the recent decision of the high court demonstrates the british establishment’s desire to delay, impede and eventually prevent our exit from the eu. if the supreme court upholds the high court decision it will precipitate a constitutional crisis. this has been possible because our political establishment persists in saying that we can only leave the eu by means of article 50. we are being led up the garden path so that we can all bark up the wrong tree. we can restore the supremacy of our own law by repealing the european communities act 1972. we will then have left the eu. parliament will have to vote on that anyway, either at the beginning or at the end of the process of disentangling britain from the european union. parliament should accept the vote of the referendum and repeal the act as a first step, not as a last step. brexit means exit.
mr president, when we are looking at the growth survey, we need to be considering its distribution and effect, not just figures. so does the commission really feel that member states have policies in place which will reduce inequality? this means dealing with issues such as corporate taxation and the top end of income, tax levels, pay ratios etc. in terms of reducing poverty, part of our 2020 strategy, what progress does the commission feel is being made? how many member states have a genuine living wage policy in place? we know this is not the same as a minimum wage. what recommendations is the commission making in this area? the report mentions effective social security and benefits schemes. we recognise that these are essential, but too many of these schemes have no factual basis when we actually look at the amounts paid. so, again, what recommendations are we making? what progress is there? on decent jobs, workers’ participation and the role of trades unions are important, so does the commission believe that its policies and recommendations on labour market reform are enhancing such participation or threatening it, as is often reported? lastly, on climate change, does the commission believe that member states have really incorporated action on this into their strategies on investment and skills development?
blue-card question. – would ms berès agree with me that france currently faces the worst of all economic worlds, in that it is locked in a currency that is entirely unsuited to its needs and that reduces room for fiscal manoeuvre, and also has a governing party which has imposed an anti-business culture which is seeing stagnation and growing unemployment? is that the reason that nobody thinks the socialists will have a candidate in the last round of the french presidential elections?
mr president, the european semester programme rolls on year after year, always failing to meet its objectives. eurozone growth crawls along in the slow lane as usual, 0.3% in the three months to september, 1.6% year on year. the eu-wide figures are slightly better thanks mainly to the uk outperforming its continental partners, this in the face of warnings that a brexit vote would plunge britain into immediate recession. during this debate you will focus on many economic indices. i would like you to direct your attention to just one. i will call it the betrayal index because it tracks the lives blighted by youth unemployment. in britain, with its own currency, the index stands at a bad enough 13%. in most european countries that surrendered their currencies it is far, far worse: 24% in france, 37% in italy, 43% spain and greece. the ideology behind the euro has locked southern europe into permanent economic stagnation. in these countries, whatever the time of year, it is always the winter semester.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, last week nobel prize-winning winning economist professor joseph stiglitz gave evidence to our panama papers inquiry committee and he was also kind enough to spend some time meeting informally with a group of green meps and staff. he was very clear about the importance of ensuring that corporations pay their fair share of tax, but also about the fact that there are still many obstacles in our way, the most obvious being continued secrecy and the jurisdictions that offer this to the rich and powerful. the anti-money-laundering directive is key to tackling not just tax avoidance but the web of secrecy, money-laundering and criminal activity that is perpetuated by secrecy jurisdictions, such as the various uk overseas territories whose hidden activity was revealed in the panama papers. the revision to the directive on administrative cooperation with regard to anti-money-laundering information that we are debating here today is therefore very welcome. i am pleased that we have cross-party agreement on this file and that parliament has agreed that the commission should have been more ambitious in its proposal. while this revision to the directive is an important step forward, we believe that there continue to be several loopholes that could be used by tax-dodging experts to circumvent the automatic exchange of information, thereby undermining its effectiveness. as an example, synthetic tax residence certificates are readily available in countries such as panama and the bahamas to avoid reporting to the union authority. to counter this, any previous residence in the eu within the last 10 years should be deemed as an indication of current residence, and a tax clearance certificate should be used to establish actual residence. i welcome the fact that we have agreed on a strong and united position from this parliament on the automatic exchange of information between member states’ tax authorities, as well as our green call for the commission to have access to the information exchanged. we emphasise to the council and commission our clear view that making the information readily available in this way increases our ability to fight tax fraud. i am delighted that we have agreed a strong and united position. i hope we will now progress towards making all such tax information public, as well as ensuring that the whistleblowers whom we currently rely on to cast light into the dark corners of the world’s financial system will be properly protected.
madam president, it is quite right that we have measures that prevent terrorist funds being used to terrorise the citizens of europe. it is also quite right that governments should seek to prevent aggressive tax avoidance and that is why we have international organisations working on both money laundering and tax avoidance. these proposals include provisions that make banks and financial institutions give information to tax authorities. these proposals therefore make banks an extension of the tax authorities, i.e. their police. furthermore, the creation of lists of european citizens’ assets is very concerning to those who believe in independence and freedom and liberty of the individual. it reminds me a little bit of the quote by the irish writer c. s. lewis: ‘the safest road to hell is the gradual one – the gentle slope, soft underfoot, without sudden turning, without milestones, without signposts’. my concern here is that there are no provisions in this directive or in the legislation that we seek that stop phishing exercises by tax authorities against legitimate individuals. there are no provisions here to prevent privacy being taken away bit by bit and slowly but surely. we must all seek to prevent money laundering and aggressive tax evasion but it must not be at the expense of the privacy and liberty of individuals doing absolutely nothing wrong.
in writing. – i voted against increased cooperation between europol and ukraine for a number of reasons. we in sinn féin have concerns in relation to the operational oversight, or lack thereof, europol is subject to. we oppose enhanced cooperation particularly when the human rights or justice standards of the state in question are dubious. given the situation in ukraine and coupled with the unaccountable, opaque, nature of europol, we continue to oppose these strategic cooperation initiatives.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep, i was elected on a mandate of britain's withdrawal from the european union and opposition to europol. likewise, we do not support the european union concluding agreements with third countries. consequently, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this technically non-legislative consultation. ukip do not support the legitimacy of europol as an institution and do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this technically non-legislative consultation. ukip do not support the legitimacy of europol as an institution and do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this technically non-legislative consultation. ukip do not support the legitimacy of europol as an institution and do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe it will help improve international relations. this will be even more important for wales now as the uk leaves the eu.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the legitimacy of europol as an institution and i do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i support eu-ukraine cooperation, and in the maximum areas. that is why i consider the cooperation we are approving today to be necessary. i also consider security cooperation to be very important.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this technically non-legislative consultation. ukip do not support the legitimacy of europol as an institution and do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not wish for the eu to make agreements on our behalf.
in writing. – in this case mr jalkh, previously the publications director and online editor for front national, was responsible for the publication and dissemination of a handbook inciting discrimination. the handbook in question contained guides for front national local councillors about the need to give priority to french people, for instance in the allocation of social housing. as mr jalkh was not an mep at the time of publication, and the actions are in no way connected to his role as an mep now, i voted for the waiver.
in writing. ‒ requests for immunity waivers are not the subject of roll-call votes. in the interests of democracy and transparency i would therefore like to confirm that i voted to waive the immunity. my reason for this is straightforward, and completely unconnected to the circumstances of the case or any allegations: immunity does not cover events which occurred before the start of an mep’s mandate.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity because at the time that the alleged offences took place he was not a sitting mep.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity because at the time that the alleged offences took place he was not a sitting mep.
in writing. – ukip voted to waive the immunity because at the time that the alleged offences took place he was not a sitting mep.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of mr jalkh.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity because at the time that the alleged offences took place he was not a sitting mep.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as this offence took place before he was an mep.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the waiver of mr jalkh’s parliamentary immunity. this case relates to a similar case for waiver from the last plenary concerning statements by jean-marie le pen against the jewish community. the mep in question in the present case was the publications director and online editor for front national at the time these statements were made, and was responsible for the uploading and dissemination of content containing statements inciting discrimination, hatred and violence. for these reasons i voted for the waiver.
in writing. ‒ requests for immunity waivers are not the subject of roll-call votes. in the interests of democracy and transparency i would therefore like to confirm that i voted to waive the immunity. my reason for this is straightforward, and completely unconnected to the circumstances of the case or any allegations: immunity does not cover events which occurred before the start of an mep’s mandate.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity because at the time that the alleged offences took place he was not a sitting mep.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity because at the time that the alleged offences took place he was not a sitting mep.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity because at the time that the alleged offences took place he was not a sitting mep.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of mr jalkh.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to waive the immunity because at the time that the alleged offences took place he was not a sitting mep.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as the offence took place before he was an mep.
in writing. ‒ this matter was approved without a vote at second reading. whilst i support a long-term plan for cod stocks (and indeed, for britain regaining our 200-mile limit on leaving the eu), i also believe that the common fisheries policy is woefully inadequate for achieving that. had there been a vote, it is highly likely that i would have voted against.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to vote to secure the future for cod fishermen. this amendment cleans up the previous regulation, with all references to precautionary spawning biomass levels being deleted. all the previous provisions relating to effort regime, which have been seen as an obstacle to the implementation of the landing obligation, have also been deleted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as is it vital that we secure the future of our fisheries. when wales is outside of the eu we will be responsible for our own fisheries policy and it is vital that it is sustainable.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report given there is need to amend the current plan governing long term stocks, which are not doing enough to ensure recovery of fish mortality, and have little stakeholder support. i welcome that the amendments will increase cooperation between fisheries, industries and scientists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it amends the current plan governing long term stocks, which were not doing enough to ensure recovery of fish mortality and had little stakeholder support. this report will increase cooperation between fisheries, industries and scientists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the current plan governing long term stocks does need to be amended, which are not doing enough to ensure recovery of fish mortality, and have little stakeholder support. the fact that these amendments will increase cooperation between fisheries, industries and scientists is something i very much welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it will reduce burden on fisheries, and improve recovery for stocks.
in writing. ‒ there was no vote on this, which shows how undemocratic this place is.
in writing. ‒ this report amends the current plan governing long-term stocks, which were not doing enough to ensure recovery of fish mortality and had little stakeholder support. the amendments will increase cooperation between fisheries, industries and scientists and is intended as a stopgap until a multi-species plan is introduced. this moves us towards the more sustainable fishing environment that we urgently need. it is interesting to note that while the brexiteers have been howling about eu fishing quotas back in the uk, the report was adopted unanimously in the european parliament’s fisheries committee, even though it was led by a pro-brexit mep.
mr president, i feel that this report rather neatly demonstrates the difference between internationalism and supranationalism. internationalism, the cooperation among sovereign countries, is impossible to argue with, and the idea that tax authorities should share information in order to crack down on illegal behaviour on tax evasion is uncontroversial. but every time this parliament gets its hands on the subject it always starts inserting a different agenda to do with tax harmonisation and with treating jurisdictions with lower tax, or tax havens as they are invariably called here, as being intrinsically illicit rather than being, as they are, a spur to the rest of us to keep tax rates within a manageable level. by all means, let us have cooperation among tax authorities. let us make it global rather than just continental and let us not leave it to the same bumbling brussels institutions that gave us the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy, schengen, the euro and all the rest of it. that is the difference between internationalism and supranationalism.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which amends an existing directive on administrative cooperation by financial institutions in the field of taxation. the goal of the changes is to enable tax authorities to consistently access anti-money-laundering information. specifically this concerns access to the mechanism, procedures, documents and information on the true beneficial owners that hide behind shell companies and trusts. it also improves the requirements for customer due diligence procedures in accordance with the fourth anti money laundering directive. this information will be compiled in central registers and member states will be obliged to share this information with tax authorities in the eu. i fully support maximum transparency across the eu in order to combat money-laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i believe that such matters should be considered as sovereign tax matters. international agreements, where necessary, can be made at intra-governmental level without recourse to eu legislation. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the directive will place mandatory requirements on member states on sovereign tax matters and personal information that could, just as easily, be agreed at an intra-governmental level, rather than via the eu. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the directive will place mandatory requirements on member states on sovereign tax matters and personal information that could, just as easily, be agreed at an intra-governmental level, rather than via the eu. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the directive will place mandatory requirements on member states on sovereign tax matters and personal information that could, just as easily, be agreed at an intra-governmental level, rather than via the eu. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which should increase transparency for banking and financial transactions. this is an issue on which my constituents in wales feel strongly, particularly as governments bailed out the banks during the financial crisis but made massive cuts in public services.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this directive because it seeks to place mandatory requirements on eu member states on sovereign tax matters that could, just as easily, be agreed at an intra-governmental level, rather than at eu level.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this proposal, which will allow tax authorities to have access to vital information about company ownership so we can take another vital step forward in the fight for tax justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will allow tax authorities to have access to vital information about company ownership so we can take another vital step forward in the fight for tax justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on anti-money laundering information, because the panama papers scandal showed that some of the most egregious tax evaders are able to get away with it by concealing information about who truly owns a company. with this proposal, the eu will allow tax authorities to have access to this vital information, and thereby we can take another vital step forward in the fight for tax justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on anti-money laundering information, because the panama papers scandal showed that some of the most egregious tax evaders are able to get away with it by concealing information about who truly owns a company. with this proposal, the eu will allow tax authorities to have access to this vital information and we can take another vital step forward in the fight for tax justice.
in writing. ‒ the directive will place mandatory requirements on member states on sovereign tax matters and personal information that could, just as easily, be agreed at an intra-governmental level, rather than via the eu. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it calls for the eu to be able to transfer our personal tax information between different countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on anti-money laundering information, because the panama papers scandal showed that some of the most egregious tax evaders are able to get away with it by concealing information about who truly owns a company. with this proposal, the eu will allow tax authorities to have access to this vital information and we can take another vital step forward in the fight for tax justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on anti-money laundering information, because the panama papers scandal showed that some of the most egregious tax evaders are able to get away with it by concealing information about who truly owns a company. with this proposal, the eu will allow tax authorities to have access to this vital information and we can take another vital step forward in the fight for tax justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on anti-money laundering information, as the european union is globally placed to take a lead role in tackling tax evasion and avoidance, where member states are not large enough to act individually. the panama papers scandal showed that some of the most egregious tax evaders are able to get away with it by concealing information about who truly owns a company. the eu’s proposal will allow tax authorities to have access to this vital information and we can therefore take another vital step forward in the fight for tax justice.
in writing. – this report outlined the main activities of the european central bank over the past year. i voted against this report, as sinn féin has a fundamentally critical view of the activities and functioning of the ecb. the report is largely uncritical of the ecb’s monetary and macro-economic policies, and it calls for ecb policy to be accompanied by member states implementing further structural reforms and increasing competitiveness. the ecb has over the past year flooded the markets with cheap money that only fuels speculative bubbles. sinn féin has an entirely different view of how to conduct monetary policy based on funding investments in the real economy in order to promote growth that benefits the majority of people and not only large banks and corporations. the report was also largely uncritical of the undemocratic nature of the ecb, while we believe it must be fundamentally reformed and held accountable.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank has focused in recent years on propping up the euro, a currency entirely unsuited to the needs of a 21st-century economy and the diversity of economies from germany to greece. this report fails to comprehend the nature of the problem, and furthermore calls for more european union, so i voted against the final report. i did, however, support various amendments which sought to highlight the problems within the ecb.
in writing. ‒ whilst critical in parts (on for example target2 imbalances) this non-legislative report nevertheless also calls on the ecb and commission to act to shore up the ecb system rather than plan to disband it, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ whilst critical in parts (on for example target2 imbalances) this non-legislative report nevertheless also calls on the ecb and commission to act to shore up the ecb system rather than plan to disband it, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ whilst critical in parts (on for example target2 imbalances) this non-legislative report nevertheless also calls on the ecb and commission to act to shore up the ecb system rather than plan to disband it, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on the final vote. i believe that austerity policies have been partly responsible for the weak and uneven ‘recovery’. the report does not call for building a sustainable economy but talks instead about growth and jobs. wales needs to transform its economy and it can only do that with the right investment and on the basis of sustainability.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. whilst the report is critical in parts (e.g. on negative interest rates and target2 imbalances) it nevertheless calls on the ecb and the eu commission to act and welcomes the ecb in doing ‘whatever it takes’ to save the euro.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report, which outlines measures that need to be taken to address the fragile economic situation of the euro area, provide jobs and growth and address excessively low inflation. i furthermore welcome that the report provides an analysis of the potential economic impact of brexit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which outlines measures that need to be taken to address the fragile economic situation of the euro area, provide jobs and growth and address excessively low inflation. i furthermore welcome that the report provides an analysis of the potential economic impact of brexit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but we must also acknowledge that the ecb alone cannot stimulate aggregate demand unless it is complemented by investments and ambitious and socially balanced structural reform programmes at member state level. we also call on the ecb to do more to make sure that liquidity reaches the real economy and smes in particular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which highlights the main financial-economic trends in the euro area in 2015. in addition, it stresses that single monetary policy alone cannot boost the economy: structural reforms are needed, in the banking sector and in the capital market union.
in writing. ‒ whilst critical in parts (on for example target2 imbalances) this non-legislative report nevertheless also calls on the ecb and commission to act to shore up the ecb system rather than plan to disband it, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it calls for the eu commission to legislate new rules.
in writing. ‒ with my s&d and eplp colleagues, i voted in support of this report because it expresses its concerns on the potential consequences that the actual negative interest rates policy could have for individual savers, pension schemes and in terms of the development of asset bubbles and asks the european commission to come forward with proposals to improve macro prudential oversight and the policy tools available for mitigating the risks in the shadow banking.
in writing. ‒ over several years, the ecb has taken action to keep the eurozone from further upheaval. however, we must be clear that the ‘structural reforms’ that we need are not more austerity, or more blindly applied ‘budgetary discipline’. what we need is sensible social public investment for inclusive and sustainable growth. the eurozone and the eu as a whole must be built on social solidarity across borders. regardless of what the outcome of brexit might be, we must maintain our core values and stick to the principles of the internal market and a social europe.
in writing. – i voted against this report (a response to a commission proposal) because i believe it weakens consumer protection when it comes to the investments of ordinary people. it also promotes the exclusion of those consumers who are not digitally ‘literate’. there are a lot of negative elements in both the commission’s proposal and this report, which promotes competition in the marketing of these products, fails to recognise significant differences in the nature of complex products in different countries, and will provide advantages for the largest multinational financial institutions. the report aims to ‘level the playing field’ for various financial instruments across the eu and to facilitate the marketing of financial products across borders. but the financial products on the market vary significantly in complexity and in different countries. they are impossible to compare, and proposals in this report would create further advantages for multinational corporations in aggressively marketing their products across borders. by promoting complex financial products at the same level as standard products, consumer protection is significantly weakened.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for greater harmonisation of financial services, and therefore i had no choice but to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ calls on the commission to become further involved in consumer protection in financial services, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ calls on the commission to become further involved in consumer protection in financial services, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ calls on the commission to become further involved in consumer protection in financial services, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is essential for my constituents in wales that we have effective rules that protect consumers and ensure transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. you could say this report forms part of the capital markets union, which is illusionary, as a result of vastly different legal systems across the eu. it calls on the eu commission to become further involved in consumer protection in financial services.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report which constitutes an important step towards creating a stronger single market for retail financial services which puts the consumer first.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this green paper as it will strengthen the position of consumers in terms of their protection in financial services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is an important step for creating a stronger single market for retail financial services and one which puts the consumer first.
in writing. ‒ this report is an important step for creating a stronger single market for retail financial services, which puts the consumer first.
in writing. ‒ calls on the commission to become further involved in consumer protection in financial services, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because it calls on the commission to become further involved in consumer protection in financial services.
in writing. ‒ this report is an important step for creating a stronger single market for retail financial services, which puts the consumer first.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is an important step for creating a stronger single market for retail financial services which puts the consumer first. the report is also strong on financial inclusion e.g. by supporting the full inclusion of all retail financial services within the scope of the directive on the accessibility requirements for products and services (the ‘european accessibility act’).
in writing. ‒ this report is an important step for creating a stronger single market for retail financial services which puts the consumer first. it is an example of eu action making european citizens more prosperous by working together.
in writing. – sinn féin completely opposes the creation of a european defence union. we will continue to promote peace building and military neutrality for ireland and the eu. specifically, we opposed this report as it called for the following: the immediate creation of a european defence union with a military headquarters and a permanent eu council of defence ministers, an eu defence budget in next mff, cooperation and compatibility with nato, closer transatlantic cooperation, 2% minimum defence spend, use of eu funds for military budget, the creation of a european military industrial complex and arms trade, eu military research funding, including drones and the creation of a ‘defence semester’.
in writing. ‒ as britain is leaving the european union, it seems to me eminently sensible that i should oppose measures related to the development of a european defence union – which could, over time, evolve into a european army.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. we are concerned by the increasing move towards eu military capability and its potential negative impact on uk foreign policy interests. nato is and should remain the primary guarantor of security in europe. any development of eu foreign policy or defence capability risks undermining this.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this report, which proposes significant enhancements to the defence union. whilst i am in favour of significant bilateral cooperation with eu member states, nato remains the anchor of british national security and our own defence policy should remain under british sovereign control.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. we are concerned by the increasing move towards eu military capability and its potential negative impact on uk foreign policy interests. nato is and should remain the primary guarantor of security in europe. any development of eu foreign policy or defence capability risks undermining this.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am opposed to any militarisation of the eu. i believe the eu has huge potential to become an international force for peace and reconciliation and that a defence union is the wrong choice. in addition, the report talks of defence spending, weaponry and the development of a european drone industry. wales is used for testing drones and there is huge opposition to this amongst my constituents.
in writing. ‒ i voted against. immediately following brexit, the eu commission and several key member states began preparations for the further integration of eu member states’ military policies. this has given further impetus for more areas of integration in defence and industrial policy; ultimately leading to a defence union. this report is full of calls for more financial spending, greater use of existing tools, and the creation of eu strategic autonomy. the final article lists 21 new policy initiatives the parliament wants the commission to pursue.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato or interfere in an area of member state competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as it offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato or interfere in what should be a member state competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as it offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato or interfere in what should be a member state competence.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. we are concerned by the increasing move towards eu military capability and its potential negative impact on uk foreign policy interests. nato is and should remain the primary guarantor of security in europe. any development of eu foreign policy or defence capability risks undermining this.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this, as this is a blatant plan to start an eu army.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as it offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato or interfere in what should be a member state competence.
in writing. – the ecr group is firmly against eu ambitions for separate and duplicative defence structures that would not only be a dangerous distraction from the revitalisation of nato but would also send confusing signals to our potential enemies. this is reflected in our votes against the report on european defence union. we only voted in favour of paragraph 36 of the report because if its central message concerning the need for more national investment in defence and defence industrial capability. we do not agree with any language in this paragraph that supports csdp or other such eu political ambitions.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted against the report as it strays into member state competence. whilst european defence cooperation is increasingly important given the turbulent geopolitical environment we find ourselves in, we must remember that the eu is above all a project of peace.
in writing. – the report did not give any real direction on how to unleash the potential of passenger transport. there is no differentiation between small regular ferries (playing a key role a sustainable public transport alternative for citizens in their daily travels such as for ireland’s islands) and huge cruises for recreational mass-tourism. neither between the strategic collateral impacts, such as its contribution to social and territorial long-term cohesion, decentralised local economy or a higher overall environmental performance. nor there is a calling for proper social, economic and environmental assessment – including strategic alternative-analysis – when planning and funding new related infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the uk is an island. the only cross-border co-operation required here is between northern ireland and the republic of ireland. this does not require action to be taken at european union level, and seems to me to be the very definition of subsidiarity: a matter which could be better be decided by the united kingdom than at a european union level. indeed, the uk already has a well-established waterborne passenger transport system. consequently, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the eu is once again trying to adopt a one size fits all policy. the uk as a island nation has considerable expertise when it comes to issues relating to shipping and passenger transportation on the sea. the report does touch on some very relevant topics such as reducing fossil fuel requirement, however it goes too far by calling for decarbonisation but does not provide any alternative. the report also goes on to claim that the eu is responsible for facilitating search and rescue operations through the introduction of the eu passenger ship safety legislation, however, the uk has had search and rescue operations in place since the 1920’s. it just goes to show that this report is both inaccurate and misleading and in addition to the reasons already mentioned i felt that i should vote against it.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the eu is once again trying to adopt a one size fits all policy. the uk as a island nation has considerable expertise when it comes to issues relating to shipping and passenger transportation on the sea. the report does touch on some very relevant topics such as reducing fossil fuel requirement, however it goes too far by calling for decarbonisation but does not provide any alternative. the report also goes on to claim that the eu is responsible for facilitating search and rescue operations through the introduction of the eu passenger ship safety legislation, however, the uk has had search and rescue operations in place since the 1920’s. it just goes to show that this report is both inaccurate and misleading and in addition to the reasons already mentioned i felt that i should vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as, whilst i fully agree that this sector plays an important role in connecting people and has great potential within and outside the uk, i cannot support all the recommendations within the final report. it makes some valid points on improving enforcement of passenger ship safety, but it fails to recognise the needs and differences of smaller operators or to address the unequal restrictions on sulphur emissions for british north sea operators in comparison to their mediterranean competitors.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the eu is once again trying to adopt a one size fits all policy. the uk as a island nation has considerable expertise when it comes to issues relating to shipping and passenger transportation on the sea. the report does touch on some very relevant topics such as reducing fossil fuel requirement, however it goes too far by calling for decarbonisation but does not provide any alternative. the report also goes on to claim that the eu is responsible for facilitating search and rescue operations through the introduction of the eu passenger ship safety legislation, however, the uk has had search and rescue operations in place since the 1920’s. it just goes to show that this report is both inaccurate and misleading and in addition to the reasons already mentioned i felt that i should vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by my colleague on the transport committee, keith taylor. i believe wales has great potential for development in this area, given the nature of our coastline. this report could help move the discussion forward.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this. commuters in europe travel by road, creating bottlenecks, congestion and delays on europe’s urban routes. making better use of available capacity of waterborne passenger transport could help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, improve air quality and provide better transport services overall. the provision of statistical data on the number of cross-border ferry, cruise and maritime services, would be crucial. provisions on interconnectivity with other transport modes, integrated ticketing and information systems are needed, taking into account the needs and rights of all travellers, including people with reduced mobility, commuters and tourists. the eu passenger ship safety legislation has been put in place over a period of 15 years and mainly in response to accidents. it resulted in improved safety of life on passenger ships sailing in eu waters and facilitated search and rescue operations. it is proposed that vessels be cleaner and more energy efficient through investment in research and innovative technologies, e.g. with regard to solar and wind energy, onshore electricity and alternative fuels, while applying the principle of technology neutrality. connected to this is the availability and use of eu funding such as the cohesion, structural, regional, interreg, horizon 2020, cef, ten-t and efsi funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given that passenger ships play an important role for the mobility of eu citizens – more than 400 million people pass through eu ports every year, with 120 million passengers transported between ports of the same member state. this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing in consumer demand. making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as passenger ships play an important role in the transportation of eu citizens, this report will help increase the importance of a sustainable sector, improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
in writing. ‒ passenger ships play an important role for the mobility of eu citizens – more than 400 million people pass through eu ports each year, with 120 million passengers transported between ports of the same member state. this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing in consumer demand. making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
in writing. ‒ passenger ships play an important role for the mobility of eu citizens – more than 400 million people pass through eu ports every year, with 120 million passengers transported between ports of the same member state. this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing in consumer demand. making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the eu is once again trying to adopt a one size fits all policy. the uk as a island nation has considerable expertise when it comes to issues relating to shipping and passenger transportation on the sea. the report does touch on some very relevant topics such as reducing fossil fuel requirement, however it goes too far by calling for decarbonisation but does not provide any alternative. the report also goes on to claim that the eu is responsible for facilitating search and rescue operations through the introduction of the eu passenger ship safety legislation, however, the uk has had search and rescue operations in place since the 1920’s. it just goes to show that this report is both inaccurate and misleading and in addition to the reasons already mentioned i felt that i should vote against it.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the eu is once again trying to adopt a one size fits all policy. the uk as an island nation has considerable expertise when it comes to issues relating to shipping and passenger transportation on the sea. the report does touch on some very relevant topics such as reducing the carbon footprint, however it goes too far by calling for decarbonisation but does not provide any alternative. the report also goes onto claim that the eu is responsible for facilitating search and rescue operations through the introduction of the eu passenger ship safety legislation, however, the uk has had search and rescue operations in place since the 1920s. it just goes to show that this report is both inaccurate and misleading and in addition to the reasons already mentioned i felt that i should vote against it.
in writing. ‒ passenger ships play an important role for the mobility of eu citizens – more than 400 million people pass through eu ports every year, with 120 million passengers transported between ports of the same member state. this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing in consumer demand. making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my socialist colleagues in favour of this report because passenger ships play an important role for the mobility of eu citizens – more than 400 million people pass through eu ports every year, with 120 million passengers transported between ports of the same member state. this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing in consumer demand. making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
in writing. ‒ passenger ships play an important role for the mobility of eu citizens – more than 400 million people pass through eu ports every year, with 120 million passengers transported between ports of the same member state. this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing due to consumer demand. making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall. as a small island with a long coastline and many ports, this report is of particular significance to britain although brexit negotiations may present many challenges in fully realising the potential of wpt.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the non-legislative report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. the eu does not have the legitimacy to order countries, whether they are member states or third countries, how or when they may use their foreign-aid budget, how much to spend or where it goes. ukip does not support this growing influence and power of the eu and therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the non-legislative report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. the eu does not have the legitimacy to order countries, whether they are member states or third countries, how or when they may use their foreign-aid budget, how much to spend or where it goes. ukip does not support this growing influence and power of the eu and therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the non-legislative report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. the eu does not have the legitimacy to order countries, whether they are member states or third countries, how or when they may use their foreign-aid budget, how much to spend or where it goes. ukip does not support this growing influence and power of the eu and therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote on this report because although the content was acceptable, it does not address the violation of development effectiveness principles in terms of eu migration policies. i visited the camp in calais with a welsh mp colleague to see at first-hand how refugees were having to live. the eu should set a good example.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. this is a non-legislative report, which looks at increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. calls on the eu commission to increase transparency and accountability of all actors involved in spending and receiving aid funds. however, it urges the eu and its member states ‘to meet the longstanding commitment to devote 0.7% of gni (gross national income) to aid and to step up their development assistance.’ the eu does not have the right to tell any nation state on where and how they can spend their money. in addition to this, the report is asking for more resources to put in place a permanent secretariat for the global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out the steps the eu should take to meet the busan commitments on aid effectiveness and to reach its development targets, whilst attempting to ‘do more, with less’. the report outlines how the eu can maximise the effectiveness of its development aid and meet its development targets agreed in the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out the steps the eu should take to meet the busan commitments on aid effectiveness and to reach its development targets, whilst attempting to ‘do more, with less’. the report outlines how the eu can maximise the effectiveness of its development aid and meet its development targets agreed in the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as part of the eu’s commitment to improving the effectiveness of development aid to make sure aid spending is as effective as possible and reaches its intended targets.
in writing. ‒ the eu is committed to improving the effectiveness of development aid to make sure aid spending is as effective as possible and reaches its intended targets. i voted in favour of this report as it sets out the steps the eu should take to meet the busan commitments on aid effectiveness and to reach its development targets, whilst attempting to ‘do more, with less’. the report forms a good outline on how the eu can maximise the effectiveness of its development aid and meet its development targets agreed in the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the non-legislative report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. the eu does not have the legitimacy to order countries, whether they are member states or third countries, how or when they may use their foreign-aid budget, how much to spend or where it goes. ukip does not support this growing influence and power of the eu and therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not wish for the eu to start dictating to the uk how they use their own budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament’s position on the principles of effective development cooperation and how they can contribute to implementing the sustainable development goals (sdgs), particularly in the context of ‘doing more, with less’ i.e. increasing development to meet the sdgs without dramatic increases in overall aid levels.
in writing. ‒ as the largest development aid provider in the world, the eu is committed to improving the effectiveness of development aid to make sure aid spending is as effective as possible and reaches its intended targets. this report sets out the steps the eu should take to meet the busan commitments on aid effectiveness and to reach its development targets, whilst attempting to ‘do more, with less’. the report forms a good outline on how the eu can maximise the effectiveness of its development aid and meet its development targets agreed in the sustainable development goals (sdgs). in order to make development policy truly effective, we must make sure we have policy coherence for development, and make sure we apply our values consistently to trade, economic and foreign policy. we must also properly recognise the role of culture as a powerful catalyst for development. this is an example of why eu action on this is so important.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, nearly six years on since the start of the civil war we find ourselves in a position where syria has become an almost accepted item or piece of intractable, insoluble foreign policy and a tragic killing field. like so many others in the house, i also advocated a no-fly zone five years ago before russia entered the conflict, which would have limited the loss of life and would have prevented us reaching this stalemate we now see today. but i do of course recognise and thank the high representative for the excellent and fantastic job she is doing to try and re-engage and resume talks. the atrocious siege of aleppo by assad’s army with the support of russian bombers continues. un special envoy stephen o’brien has described the situation as being one of a deliberate tactic of cruelty by assad and russia. we wait now to see what the trump administrative policy will be with regard to syria, but his comments regarding a deal with russia over syria and ukraine leaves little room for optimism, both by betraying ukrainian sovereignty and turning a blind eye to war crimes carried out against innocent civilians. we can draw some comfort that evil isis is now being squeezed in raqqa, but my fear is that they will regroup and re-emerge elsewhere, including in our cities in europe.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, madam high representative, the tragedy caused by the stalemate in syria shows precisely the importance of mediation and diplomatic sophistication. that the international community has let this brutal civil war carry on for so long not only highlights its failure, but also displays an incredible lack of capacity in negotiation. that was often a role played by great britain, and it is my hope that our imminent diplomatic independence will allow us to fill this mediation gap, helping to assist the international community in working for the benefit of people trapped in these awful conflicts. we may not like everybody who we have to deal with on the international stage, but we cannot continue to allow conflicts to carry on over what ultimately boils down to disagreements between great powers. we must put these differences aside and return to sensible geopolitics, including the work towards a genuine sustainable peace in syria.
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, the last time i spoke about syria i called for a no-fly zone against syrian government planes. i repeat this plea again as an urgent and necessary measure to ensure civilian protection. the need to protect civilians is paramount to any political process. residents of aleppo are at risk of extermination if we do not act now. if we cannot trust assad and russia to stop bombing hospitals and schools how can we trust them to engage with them and implement a political solution? all eu states should develop and implement mechanisms to ensure that war criminals from the syrian conflict are held to account. this is especially critical in light of russia's veto of any accountability mechanism through the un security council. i welcome the recent decisions to review eu sanctions against syria. however, more needs to be done in this regard. europeans want sanctions against the assad regime, russia and iran.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, whatever our personal views, the time has come for us all to be honest and open with turkey – a country that has seen remarkable economic growth, thanks to increasing economic freedom, under a governing ak party that has married islam with democracy and economic liberalisation. there are many who had hoped it could become a model for a new form of muslim democracy in countries across the middle east and north africa, just as christian democracy developed in europe. i am confident that many members of the ak party still share this vision. but we all have concerns over the actions of president erdogan. had he simply been content to be elected as a ceremonial president, rather than seeking more power as an executive president, there might be a little less criticism. but what we have seen recently raises serious concerns: opponents being arrested, media being closed, minorities being persecuted. across this chamber today, i believe many of us are now united in saying ‘enough is enough.’ i fully understand why some politicians here, and in our national capitals, are reluctant to criticise erdogan. i appreciate that there are much wider geopolitical factors at play: sustaining the eu-turkey migration deal, after turkey’s generosity in hosting three million refugees; security cooperation – for turkey too has suffered from terrorist attacks; and not wanting to push erdogan into putin’s arms or into a corner. however, we need to be honest with each other, and, in wanting to be honest with turkey, we need to be honest with ourselves. for far too long, we have dishonestly dangled the prospect of eu membership in front of turkey. you and i know there are so many reasons why it may not happen in our lifetimes: prejudice against a predominantly non-christian nation, whose land mass is mostly in asia; fears over turkey’s future voting weight in the european parliament and council; concerns over borders with iran, syria and iraq as the eu seeks to extend its common security and defence policy – to name just a few reasons. but the eu continues to pretend that it is ‘business as usual’ in relations with turkey. yet more sticking plaster across growing cracks! in common with other parliamentary groups, the ecr has members who are for, against, and agnostic on, turkish membership of the union, but we can all see that the current relationship is not working. so, instead of ‘business as usual’, let us build a new relationship based not on false promises but on honesty. let us build a new relationship based not necessarily on eu membership but on real cooperation. let us build a new relationship based not on just fighting today’s fires and problems but also on preparing for the challenges we will all face for decades to come.
madam president, i have had concerns about the direction of travel of turkey for many years, particularly since the ak party took power in 2003, following his inauguration as president and the subsequent attempted coup, we find president erdoğan on an increasingly authoritarian trajectory, now with the arrest of journalists and opposition mps. his latest comments suggesting that turkey, a nato member state, could join the non-democratic china and russia-led shanghai cooperation council, highlights my concerns. and this coming so soon after he railed against inaction at the un security council over syria, where he supports jihadi insurgents. let us remind ourselves that it is his friend russia, mr putin, and china that have done most to prevent any action on syria at the un security council. it is clearer than ever that president erdoğan does not seek to lead a turkey that is capable of meeting the democratic and rule-of-law criteria for eu membership. bearing in mind the crucial relationship that exists between turkey and the european union, it is perhaps now time that a new framework for relations be considered. sadly, the eu- turkish relationship was a key issue during the brexit referendum campaign and helped to deliver a brexit result – very sad indeed.
madam president, the fact that you consider yourselves advocates for human rights across the world but support the principle that a turkey, led by mr erdoğan, can become members of your club, smacks of hypocrisy. this is a regime that persecutes its citizens, imprisons journalists, covertly supports islamic state, and has even considered legalising child rape as long as the rapist then marries the child. i am relieved to see that the turkish government appears to be backing down from this, but to have ever even considered it is a disgrace. you spend eur 650 million a year to support this junta. do you think that this is a responsible way to spend taxpayers money, or that the 40 000 people who have recently been arrested are grateful for your support of this dictator?
madam president, many of us have long pointed out that if, over many years, we treated turkey with disrespect and disdain, we should not now be surprised if she should give up her western orientation of the past century and head off in a different direction. i have just returned from istanbul where i was attending the nato parliamentary assembly. i can tell you that many turks are angry and disappointed at what they see as lack of support from those who say they are her friends. turkey sees how she stood firm throughout the cold war at the borders of the soviet union. she is now at the heart of this arc of crisis in the black sea and middle east region, she has suffered perpetual terrorist attacks over decades – particularly from the soviet-created pkk – she is now hosting nearly three million refugees, costing her usd 25 billion, she is in the front line of the fight against daesh, and she has suffered an attempted coup. it could well be the case that turkey, in due course, will seek a relationship with the eu different from full membership. that should be her decision. it would be a gross strategic error for the eu itself to slam the door in the face of turkey, a country of crucial geo-strategic importance, a staunch nato ally for 64 years, a crucial partner in combating jihadists, and with so many positive links to western europe. don’t forget that for many good people in turkey the journey is perhaps more important than arriving at the destination ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, yesterday i returned from my second visit to turkey in less than a month, and i can report that the climate of state repression continues unabated, particularly against hdp political opponents and civil society. erdoğan’s forces are cranking up the level of fear and intimidation amongst the population, using the smokescreen of a state of emergency to carry out a policy that looks very much like ethnic cleansing in kurdistan. having bombed and cleared whole neighbourhoods in sur and nusaybin, parents are now denied the right to bury their children killed in the process. the shutting-down of media outlets reporting from the ground means that the world does not know what is happening. turkey is fast slipping into a fascist state, and we must rethink our relationship with our european neighbour, because european values of democracy and human rights are being sorely tested. when an elected member of the akp ruling party can bring forward a bill that legalises the rape of a minor by means of child marriage, we should all worry about how things will end.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the policy of building illegal settlements in the occupied palestinian west bank is a major barrier and makes a two-state solution impossible. the settlements are not only illegal under international humanitarian law, they are war crimes. but the israeli government continues to build more settlements, demolish palestinian homes and confiscate more palestinian land, leading to more tension and, without doubt, more violence. there are now 800 000 israeli settlers living illegally on occupied palestinian land in the west bank and in east jerusalem. some settlers involved in violence have citizenship of member states, and they are violating international humanitarian law. israel has been warned that demolitions and settlement constructions harm eu-israeli relations, but where is the action? the eu must do more than make hollow threats like a toothless tiger. israel must be put under actual pressure, not just words. eu-israeli relations must be made conditional on respect for, and compliance with, international law. the eu must suspend the eu-israeli association agreement until israel dismantles the illegal settlements, ends the occupation of palestine and begins a genuine peace process for a lasting peace and a sustainable two-state solution.
madam president, madam high representative, virtually the whole world accepts and wants a two-state solution, yet this concept is vanishing before our eyes. given the us election results, the eu has to be even more active on this front. the truth is that if israel carries on this way, then the only option left would be a one-state solution. would israel then accept the democratic values that come as a result? israel needs to wake up and smell the coffee, and indeed so do we. everyone wants to use the palestinian cause for their own needs, including the extremists. this year, over 100 structures funded by the commission and member states have been demolished or confiscated, costing our taxpayers over eur 400 000. what further diplomatic pressure will the high representative put on israel to change its current settlement policy? will the eu implement the differentiation policy? will you now heed the recommendations of the eu head of missions’ reports on east jerusalem and the west bank? ultimately, we need to revitalise the peace process – something we all agree on.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am tempted to spend my time replying to ioan’s question about what went wrong with the eu. well, maybe not listening to our citizens, maybe the euro, maybe migration policy... what about misguided notions about eu defence? the security and credibility of the west rests on the combined strength of the democracies. we always knew that whoever became the next president of the united states, he or she would have demanded that the europeans carry more of the defence burden. but i would suggest that this is done by the nations spending more on defence and showing more capability and revitalising the nato alliance, not creating alternative structures. unlike the eu, nato is an intergovernmental organisation. it does not undermine national sovereignty, and above all, it has the enormous advantage of binding the united states to the security of europe. that is the great combined power that our potential enemies take seriously. russia would be delighted if europe was to develop its so-called ‘strategic autonomy’ separated from the united states – i mean, what’s that all about? it is a dangerous fallacy for the european union to imagine, and i am quoting here from the report, that it can ‘intervene across the whole spectrum of crisis management’ – that includes war fighting, by the way – and that the eu should aim for a ‘common defence’. i thought you said you were not aiming for collective defence – ‘common defence’ is the same thing. which immediately casts doubt on the continued relevance of nato. how on earth would the eu protect its non-nato members? it is just disingenuous for the eu to talk about complementarity with nato when the aim is to set up a different military structure.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, here we have in black and white the dangerous fantasy that nick clegg tried to trick voters with in 2014, when he said there were no plans for an eu military. whilst the uk government dithers over invoking article 50, and pro-eu mps and lords plot to overturn the will of the people, the eu is busy putting in place plans to spend british taxpayers’ money on an eu military which many here hope will replace nato. except that this scheme will not just focus on martial law, but also seeks to encroach on civil liberties – and i would like to bring to meps’ attention the fact that this report wants eu troops to combat subversion. subversion actually covers everything from threats to the state to political opposition, books, films and even comedians. this is an attack on free speech and, because it comes from a place like this, an attack on those who oppose the eu project. this report has huge implications for the sovereignty of the uk and its ability to control its own military, and those implications must serve as motivation for all brexiteers and those who believe in democracy to ensure that the will of the people is served. we cannot afford to be trapped in this bloc, which so shamelessly uses crises of its own making, such as the migrant crisis, to further its political aims. the terrorist attacks in brussels and paris have been directly linked to the stupidity of the eu’s migration policy, which, had that policy been carried out by an organisation with any level of accountability, would have resulted in senior figures being unceremoniously fired. to make the most of this opportunity, we need to invoke article 50 as soon as possible and revitalise the uk armed forces, including by increasing defence spending and investment in our troops and in the industries needed to have a strong engineering and defence sector in the uk.
mr president, the election of donald trump has been a wake-up call for us, even though the us has long urged europeans to take more responsibility for their own security. european defence structures, require attention, as ms mogherini has said. our spending is 50% that of usa, yet our achievement is 15%. there are clearly issues we need to attend to. the goal of 2% of gdp, to which nato allies committed themselves in 2014, has so far been reached by only four member states. reports also show how duplication and inefficiency eat into the eur 200 billion annual defence spend of eu member states. lack of interoperability also remains a major problem affecting military cooperation. what we need is a serious effort from member states to invest more, and more efficiently, in military capabilities. it is time to demonstrate the political will to take action, as opposed to issuing declarations. the implementation plan on security and defence approved last week by all 28 member states represents an important step forward in european security and defence. we must rethink the eu’s defence role and enhance its capacity to act in the changing global strategic environment. we have to be a more independent and resilient actor, less reliant on the us and working more closely with and complementing nato, as agreed during the summit in warsaw. if europe is to remain safe and secure, defence cooperation among member states must become the norm.
mr president, there is no doubt that we live in dangerous and uncertain times. perhaps we should start by congratulating french security forces this week on apprehending those who seemed set on terrorist activity, and express our solidarity with the city of strasbourg, where heightened security measures have once again been deemed necessary in the run-up to the celebration of christmas. however, i also want to make it clear this evening that defence policy is not something that can be auctioned off to the highest bidder. it is the age-old right of sovereign nation states to keep their people safe. many in these institutions are talking nonsense about an eu army and an operational headquarters. the united kingdom has always shown itself willing to come to the aid of our allies. we will retain the right and the capacity to defend ourselves and also our closest neighbours inside and outside the european union. the reality is that, while brussels panders to federalist ambitions, it sacrifices the positive role that it can play. the eu must support nato, not compete with it; foster national cooperation, not seek to replace it; and respect the indelible rights of governments to protect their citizens.
mr president, at a time when there are multiple threats facing europe it is right for the eu to look at improving its level of intergovernmental cooperation in terms of the common security and defence policy. as ever, the proposals have been met by some in this house with false accusations that they amount to the creation of an eu army and a concerted effort to undermine the role of nato. the csdp has always been rooted in absolute respect for the member states’ sovereignty in this key area of national policy, and on acknowledging nato as the mainstay of european defence. the conclusions of the most recent foreign affairs council uphold these key principles. its support for strengthening europe’s industrial defence base, eliminating duplication and waste in certain areas of procurement, and exploring the possibility of greater levels of integration militarily for those member states willing to take such action under the permanent structured cooperation (pesco) mechanism is to be welcomed, and also respects the principles of sovereignty. the eu navfor atalanta mission stands out as a strong example of what cooperation at eu level can achieve. bringing together member states’ defence capabilities alongside the eu’s unique soft-power and hard-power capabilities, it was able comprehensively to defeat piracy in the indian ocean, and, most importantly, nato welcomed this cooperation. it was, of course, commanded by the royal navy, based in my london constituency, but that is an aside. ultimately, and this is the point i want to make to the high representative today, the united kingdom after brexit must stay plugged into the cfsp and the csdp. that would be my lifelong ambition post-brexit.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, after decades of relative peace in europe – with the exception of the yugoslavian civil war – this report is worryingly reminiscent of the cold war. the breakdown in relations between the west and russia, of which both parties are guilty, has produced far more insecurity in europe; we know that. diplomacy and deterrents are delicate mechanisms. when used correctly, they help guarantee security for our citizens, but when it goes wrong there is hell to pay. escalation can spiral out of control and lead us to places that, i trust, nobody in this chamber wishes to go. you have to stop your neo-colonialism and your justifications for more european union and remember the hard-learned lessons of the cold war – careful deterrents, sophisticated diplomacy, and cooperation where possible.
madam president, as a member of the culture and education committee, i believe that support for independent media and promotion of the freedom of the press, recognising the role of education and media literacy and the need for putting in place a strategic cultural diplomacy platform at eu level must be the pillars of eu actions aiming at countering propaganda. supporting freedom of press and independent media must, in my view, include actions of support for imprisoned and persecuted journalists and human rights activists. on top of promoting media literacy and critical thinking, which are really the keys to many of the challenges we are facing, we need further regulation of hate speech online, including a greater collaboration with online platforms and social media. finally – and most importantly for me – i want to emphasise further the role of intercultural dialogue, people-to-people contacts and encouraging the eu communication strategy to include local populations and civil society.
madam president, i welcome the creation of a skills guarantee as part of a lifelong learning approach and would like to emphasise some elements. we need to prepare learners of all ages and from all backgrounds so that they can be ready for a fast-changing, complex and hyper-connected world, ready for jobs and competences that do not even exist yet. that is why it is key to ensure that learners are equipped with transferable skills, among which media literacy and curiosity, critical and creative thinking and entrepreneurship are key. we must also equip learners with the necessary skills for a more open, sustainable and inclusive society. we therefore need to invest in their social skills, and in particular their intercultural skills. on top of guaranteeing a minimum level of literacy, numeracy and digital skills for all, those are the skills that we must invest in for learners to become not only fit for the labour market, but also true problem—solvers and responsible and active citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am pleased to take this opportunity to address you on the national emission ceilings (nec) directive ahead of our final plenary vote this afternoon here in strasbourg. this proposal represents three years of work for me personally and even longer for many others in the commission and beyond. i would like to thank the political group shadow rapporteurs for their close cooperation throughout the work on the proposal, the commission team for their technical knowledge and irrepressible optimism and the dutch presidency for the good spirit in which these difficult negotiations were conducted. on the last day of the dutch presidency, 30 june 2016, we reached an agreement on this challenging legislative proposal after five months of tough trilogues and many technical drafting meetings. the political backdrop has changed dramatically over the past three years, with the issue of air quality moving up the public agenda in an unprecedented way, culminating in the vw scandal and the focus on the issue of real-driving emissions. perhaps there is also a recognition that we have spent the past decade or more concentrating so much on co2 that we have neglected air quality. we have known for some time that europe needs to take action to clean up its air, and i believe strongly that this vote is a step in the right direction. it is not a perfect solution but it will go a long way to making important health improvements for our citizens. air pollution is the number one environmental cause of death in the eu. more than 400 000 of our citizens die prematurely each year and millions more suffer debilitating illness requiring medication and hospitalisation. this has an enormous human and economic cost, with tens of billions of euros in days lost at work and even more spent on healthcare bills, particularly in a country like my own where healthcare costs are met directly through our national system. air pollution also hits the natural environment through eutrophication and acid deposition. so in december 2013 the commission published its clean air package the central plank of which was the nec directive and the setting of emissions reduction targets in all the member states for 2030. this proposal has had a difficult passage through the legislative process. we had the european elections shortly after it was published, a new commission taking office and a real fight from this house to keep the directive on the table after a suggestion that it might be withdrawn from the work programme. more recently, we have had to contend with the uk referendum on eu membership and securing a deal in the difficult days – for me at least – after the vote to leave. i still feel strongly, as your rapporteur, that this is a key issue which is best tackled at eu level. simply put, air pollution does not stop at member state borders. i strongly believe that better regulation and good air quality are not mutually exclusive and that is why i fought so hard to keep this proposal alive and get it onto the books. there will be some people here who will say that the deal is not ambitious enough and that we should have fought longer and harder for even higher targets. the fact is, however, that this is a negotiation. each side has its positions and, whilst there is always room for improvement, we have to be cognisant of the political reality and not allow perfection to become the enemy of good. parliament’s starting position on annex ii was in line with the commission’s impact—assessed proposal, which estimated the emission reduction commitments would result in a 52% health improvement, whereas the council’s figures, set out as part of a general approach, would have resulted in a 48% reduction in premature mortality. in the final, hard-fought agreement the overall level of ambition on annex ii takes us to just under 50%. concerning the targets for 2025, the final compromise specifies that member states may follow a non-linear trajectory if that is economically or technically more efficient, provided that, as from 2025, it converges progressively with the linear trajectory and does not affect any reduction commitment for 2030. in addition, member states would have to explain the reasons for any deviation from the linear trajectory, as well as the measures necessary to return to it. on flexibility provisions, parliament accepted that member states should be granted some flexibility in achieving the 2030 targets but tightened the wording proposed by the council to ensure that the provisions were not open to abuse. parliament accepted that methane be excluded from the scope of the legislation on condition that the commission confirmed, in accordance with its right of initiative, that it would carry out a review with regard to methane even if it was not specifically in the directive. this issue should never be about playing to the gallery: it should be about real action for our citizens. as the rapporteur, i am fully supportive of this final text and consider it to be an ambitious, fair and workable agreement for reducing the number of premature deaths attributable to air pollution. it is not a perfect agreement but, as a brit working in brussels, i am not sure there is any such thing, ever. compromise is key to any negotiation and any final agreement. indeed, having a seat at the table and being able to influence the discussions is a precious thing. so i urge you all to vote in favour of this deal today. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i like to extend my thanks to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation on this very important file. it is important to recognise that, at the beginning of the mandate of this parliament, the issue of air equality was not perhaps quite uppermost in people’s thoughts. it has taken a scandal or two to get us to this situation, most notably, of course, the ‘dieselgate’ scandal involving vw. this is an issue that affects so many of our citizens: 400 000 across the eu are dying prematurely, and in my city – the eu’s biggest city, london – 10 000 people are dying every single year from the effects of poor air. 90% of our citizens who live in cities are exposed to dangerously high levels of air pollution. we could be proud of this place and the coordinated action that has taken place at a european level. throughout the process, it was the european institutions that led the way in terms of ambition. the high initial ambition shown by the environment committee is testament to the individual ambitions of the members who supported the highest targets, and this place can be proud of consistently holding a higher line than that shown by the member states. ultimately we had to compromise, but it was the national governments who had consistently shown the least resolve. at every stage this parliament, representing 500 million citizens across the european union, was backed not just by ngos, scientists and public health campaigns, but also by cities from berlin to barcelona, london to lisbon, paris to prague, to dublin to dubrovnik, amsterdam to aarhus. city mayors have shown us that they want this action to be taken at european level. we now have this deal on the table with member states; it is not perfect, and it will not eliminate the problem, but it is significant progress and it does show what can be achieved by scaling up overriding competing regional and national interests and acting in the common good. our task is now to hold governments to account on delivering these targets. we must challenge the old tired but re-emerging competition between industry and the idea that industry and clean air cannot go hand in hand. we must consistently put pressure to target resources into innovation and the development of new technology, and we must never surrender to the divisive rhetoric from those who want to see a race to the bottom between us on environmental standards. it has perhaps become fashionable in my country to pretend we can insulate ourselves from difficult decisions, to pretend that we can deal with these issues on our own. we cannot. we breathe the same air. i have no idea what brexit will end up doing to my city and my country, but i do know that the best environmental protections we have have come from this place. if we are to continue to work and to trade with our nearest neighbours in the world’s biggest market, we have to abide by its rules. i do not expect them to, but if my government decides to use environmental standards as a bargaining chip, i expect and urge all of us here to stand firm. let us continue in this place to show the highest resolve.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, air pollution is serious. doctors and scientists are giving us the evidence and warning european governments of the disastrous effects on us all. it is high time that clean air is seen as an essential human right, as is clean drinking water and enough food for all. air pollution causes 400 000 premature deaths every year in europe. dirty air is particularly damaging to unborn babies. while i am pleased that eu governments have agreed to halve the number of early deaths in europe from air pollution by 2030, it is clear that we must all work to achieve this – industry, farming, governments and everyone else. these negotiations were tough, and it has been good to work cross-party. i thank all of us who were working on that. thankfully, we had julie girling, who was that tough negotiator that we really needed, but many member states were reluctant to agree to the targets and may drag their feet. just look at my own government in the uk. they know that london is failing on air quality, yet they plough on with expanding heathrow airport. air pollution around the airport is already dangerously above legal levels of nitrogen dioxide, and this will make it worse. for the conservative government, air pollution is a trade-off. chasing economic growth is more important than actually protecting the public’s health, or perhaps they think that outside the eu we will not be affected by air at all. that is not acceptable, and as a liberal democrat i will continue to fight against the heathrow expansion and for good quality care for all european citizens.
mr president, mr gerbrandy asked why agriculture gets a pass. agriculture involves natural processes – urination and defecation. mr gerbrandy is guilty of the same processes. i challenge him to reduce them. when i was a boy in london we had a big problem called smog. we got rid of it without the help of the eu and without the help of the green party. i look at the problem of ammonia on farms and i am interested to see that small farms are going to get a pass, while larger farms are not. by a strange coincidence the larger farms are in the uk. i also wonder about the inspections and the enforcement of all of this. we will do it in the uk to the letter. i wonder if the same can be true of elsewhere in europe. i am also concerned about nmvo compounds. are we going to export an industry here? are we simply going to import materials that are being produced with these compounds elsewhere? finally, nitrous oxide is produced by leguminous plants, yet the european commission wants farmers to produce more leguminous plants.
mr president, we in ukip believe in the importance of improving air quality. elevated levels of – and long-term exposure to – air pollution can lead to severe conditions affecting human health. the respiratory and inflammatory systems are very often affected, and serious illnesses such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) and cancer are related. air pollution also causes harm to flora and fauna. however, ukip is against further eu legislation, and in this instance we are concerned about the increased administrative burden for industry and governments. member states should be free to adopt specific measures at national level. with brexit, we will finally be free to reject eu environmental and climate policies that have been detrimental to our economies. we will be able to autonomously determine our own policy whilst mobilising our own resources in this area. free from the eu commission, the uk will provide a reliable and consistent regulatory environment in order to facilitate investment in all affordable energy technologies at the same time as putting the health and interests of our citizens first.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you to all the colleagues who have spoken this morning. their contributions reflect the divisions in this house over the ambition levels, and particularly the removal of methane and the effects on agriculture. in fact, agriculture has taken quite a prominent position in this debate, so i would particularly like to mention to mr häusling that, whilst he extols the virtue of organic farming, you will search in vain through his organic regulation proposals, currently in trilogue, for any reference to agricultural standards on air quality, whereas the nec proposal contains an extensive annex referencing farming practices. this is a lost opportunity i think. also, to those polish members who criticise this directive: they have spoken about unfairness to agriculture, while rather ignoring the elephant in the room. in 2013, a survey by the environmental agency of air quality in 386 cities found that krakow had the third most polluted air in europe, predominantly as a result of 30 000 coal-fired boilers, with a further 150 000 in the wider malopolska area. dealing with this would improve their citizens’ health massively without affecting their agriculture at all. the solution, as ever, lies in their own hands. i would particularly like to acknowledge the support of those colleagues, led by the majority of the shadow rapporteurs, who see the agreement as a hard-fought compromise that is not perfect but are accepting it and encouraging a vote for it. i would like to urge those colleagues who will indulge themselves in a vote against – under the cover of the majority who, they know, propose to compromise – to think again and to give us, later today, as wide and as big a majority across the house as we can achieve.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to express my thanks to commissioner arias cañete for his continuing inclusive style of leadership through cop 22, continuing on from good experiences at cop 21. it is pretty impossible to ignore, though, the big orange cloud that was hanging over cop 22, and not from the saharan dust. it is true that the us elections did have an effect, but there were positive outcomes. in a political statement of resolve following the us presidential elections, the conference adopted a call for all nations to honour promises made in paris and renew their attempts to limit global warming to well below 2 degrees. negotiators focused on initiatives to reinforce existing carbon reduction plans, with some countries promising to review ambitions before 2020. countries also fixed a 2018 deadline for preparing a rule book establishing the rules and processes needed to provide operational guidance for the paris agreement and 11 governments, including my own, actually ratified the climate agreement during the cop. there were, of course, some negative outcomes. despite strategic funding commitments from the us, germany and the uk to improve carbon accounting in developing countries, the sums on offer fall well short of the eur 100 billion a year developed countries have promised to mobilise by 2020 in order to help poorer countries develop their infrastructure on many fronts. i know that the work to increase these new financial pledges will be ongoing, and mr arias cañete is in the forefront with his high ambition coalition. the issue of loss and damage and how to approach recompense for damage caused by climate change has been put off again for discussions at further dates, but that does not mean that it has been forgotten. over the past 12 months, we have made rapid and unprecedented progress in laying the foundations for a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. this cop 22 showed us that progress is never linear, but it does not mean that it is not going on, and it does not mean that it will not be successful.
madam president, we have just seen the unedifying sight of 10 000 climate alarmists flying off to marrakech and emitting thousands of tons of co2 in the process. and what have they achieved? i will tell you: three parts of not very much. on the vexed question of finance, they agreed to keep talking; on the adaptation fund, they failed to reach agreement; on the facilitative dialogue, they postponed to 2018; on the rulebook, they reached no real conclusion; and on the vague concept of loss and damage from climate change, they agreed a five-year plan, effectively postponing the decision until 2022. that is failure writ large. a few weeks ago, i had the pleasure of hosting my friend marc morano of the american advocacy group climate depot in the brussels parliament for a showing of his movie ‘climate hustle’, a critical appraisal of climate alarmism. marc morano also went to marrakech, where he symbolically shredded a copy of the paris climate agreement. we were told that the paris agreement was legally binding. in fact, it had no binding targets and no sanctions for non-compliance. we now have a new american president who has repudiated that agreement. i think we can now say with some confidence that the paris agreement is well and truly dead.
madam president, i have a question for commissioner cañete. as chair of the development committee, i want to ask what link you see, commissioner, between what we are talking about today and the package adopted by the commission yesterday? because the commission adopted two communications, one on the next steps for a sustainable european future and one on the consensus for development, and it seems to me that the link to be made with paris is a golden opportunity to have real policy coherence for development. so i hope we will work together in this parliament, and also that the various parts of the commission will work together. the second opportunity concerns energy in africa and developing countries, and i thank claude turmes for talking about the external investment plan because this is an extremely important opportunity, and we have not talked much today about africa and developing countries. seventy percent of african energy now comes from renewables, mainly biomass. in marrakech, 47 developing countries, i think, pledged to invest in renewable energy, and we should be helping them to do that. i hope, commissioner cañete, that you will be working with commissioners mimica and timmermans and the others in order to get a coherent eu policy.
mr president, i wonder, as a thought experiment, what would happen if this parliament were suddenly to disappear. which of our constituents would notice? which of us would be missed? that may sound like a rather ungenerous way of putting it, so let me phrase it the other way around: consider the immense talent gathered in this chamber, the great skills and experience brought by people from 28 countries. wouldn’t it be a wonderful thing if those skills could be released into the private sector to contribute to the economy by making and selling things instead of by regulating them? one great upside of the coming brexit is that at least british eurocrats and british meps, about whom i have occasionally been rude, will now be redeployed from the unproductive to the productive bit of the economy.
mr president, parliament’s calendar for 2018 was an issue which was approved without a vote. i would like to confirm, for the record, that if this had been voted on i would have abstained, because i am very hopeful that by 2018 this won’t affect me – i am hopeful that the uk will have left the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament’s calendar of part—sessions for 2018.
in writing. ‒ there was no vote on this proposal.
in writing. ‒ while of course i support the parliament continuing its important democratic work representing the citizens of the european union, i would like to use this opportunity to register my opposition to the european parliament’s strasbourg seat. together with an overwhelming majority of my mep colleagues, i support a single seat for the european parliament, doing its important work in brussels.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which called to refer the eu-canada comprehensive and economic trade agreement (ceta) to the european court of justice. this comes following opinions by judges, legal practitioners and academics (including irish) that chapter 8 on investment protection, which establishes a permanent investment court, is contrary to the eu judicial order as laid out in article 19 of the teu. the issue lies in the fact that this new court, established outside the existing judicial framework, which is not answerable to nor overseen by the cjeu or the national courts cannot be compatible with the eu treaties. the european parliament reserves the right to refer any international agreement to the european court of justice for an opinion via article 218(11) tfeu before it gives its consent.
in writing. ‒ if ceta were a genuine move towards free trade, and one which was designed to benefit working people, then i would be fully supportive of it. free trade is important for economic development, and indeed one of the arguments for brexit is that it will enable us to negotiate free trade deals with countries around the world. however, ceta appears to be another deal which will support big business whilst hampering small business, and i have huge concerns about the proposed investor-state dispute resolution provisions. in the current case, i voted in favour of the resolution (and, in effect, against ceta) for three reasons: 1. the european union must not break its own rules, and therefore legal questions should be resolved first. 2. if legal questions are not resolved before the adoption of ceta, it creates the potential for confusion and loss of business. 3. regardless, this vote would in any case have served to cause a delay in the implementation of a bad deal.
in writing. ‒ we supported this resolution because we see both ceta and ttip as part of the globalisation of crony capitalism and primarily benefitting ‘big business’ rather than people.
in writing. ‒ we supported this resolution because we see both ceta and ttip as part of the globalisation of crony capitalism and primarily benefitting ‘big business’ rather than people.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is an attempt to delay the implementation of the trade agreement with canada by asking for an additional and unnecessary legal opinion, with the sole purpose of delaying the introduction of the trade deal. i cannot support an attempt to hold up the trade agreement, as doing so could cost uk exporters millions of pounds in lost exports and extra import duties and penalise uk consumers by forcing them to pay additional taxes and tariffs on goods imported from canada.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution to ask the european court of justice to rule whether ceta is compatible with the eu treaties. i have been contacted by many hundreds of my constituents in wales asking for the parliament’s support for this move. with ceta, as with all trade deals, there has to be absolute certainty of compliance with eu law.
in writing. ‒ i backed this motion. ceta and ttip are being created to benefit big business and i have concerns about the investor dispute resolution provisions, to which i object strongly. the issue is the ecj opinion is more complicated – i am often concerned about the motivation, impact and consequence of such ecj rulings. however, i believed it was reasonable to ask for an early ruling and i am disappointed that it didn’t pass.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this initiative given that parliament’s legal service has already given assurances concerning the compatibility of the investment chapter with the treaties in march 2016. the council moreover decided to exclude parts of the investment protection provisions and of ics from the provisional application of ceta. the canadian government, the commission and the council have taken explicit commitments to continue the technical work on the establishment of the ics-system in the direction that we as social democrats put forward. we all share the objective of having a sound public system in place which corresponds to the criteria we have established in our position paper from february 2015. we have therefore an interest not to stop the process now with a referral to the european court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, because it is important to take responsibility for taking a decision on whether to support or not the ratification of ceta and not delay the decision for at least two years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling for the ceta text to be referred to the ecj, for consideration of whether the terms are entirely compatible with the eu treaties. a very large number of constituents have been in touch with me expressing concerns about the potential consequences of ceta, and also with concerns about the recent apparent moves to apply unseemly haste to the process of consideration by this parliament. surely we owe it to our constituents to allow time for full scrutiny in our committees of this text, and to consider whether the concerns of critics can be openly and genuinely addressed. although we have been told that the ics system within ceta will be constrained to a limited extent by the inclusion of a clause which ‘guarantees’ the right of governments to regulate in the public interest, i think it reasonable to seek a judgement of the ecj for clarity and i am disappointed that the resolution did not achieve a majority in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the referral of ceta to the european court of justice because i believe that this agreement raises important legal questions that must receive proper answers before meps can vote on it. ceta would be the first ever eu trade deal to include an investment dispute arbitration mechanism. this mechanism, known as the investment court system (ics), would become the template for investment protection in all future trade deals. yet it has never been tested. a large number of respected legal experts, trade unions and consumer organisations have argued that ics could seriously hamper the uk government’s ability to regulate in the public interest. it could also infringe on eu and national courts’ jurisdictions, and give foreign investors greater rights than european investors. these questions are too important to be overlooked, and it is therefore entirely appropriate for meps to seek the opinion of the european court of justice on these matters.
in writing. ‒ we supported this resolution because we see both ceta and ttip as part of the globalisation of crony capitalism and primarily benefitting ‘big business’ rather than people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as i wish to do everything to stop ceta.
in writing. – today i voted against this resolution, not because i am against having clarity about the ics provisions in ceta but against doing this to the detriment of the entire ceta agreement, whose majority of the text does not pose any legal problem. it is important to take responsibility for taking a decision on whether to support or not the ratification of ceta and not delay the decision up until at least two years.
in writing. ‒ as an advocate of the alternative trade mandate, i support trade that puts people and planet ahead of profits. citizens and civil society organisations from across europe, as well as respected legal authorities have expressed doubts as to whether the investment court system (ics) is compatible with the eu’s treaties, and with the ecj as the sole interpreter of eu law. i am proud to have been one of the meps to co-sign the resolution. i voted in favour of the referral to the ecj because it is important to have legal certainty that the rights of european citizens will not be violated, and that the democratic accountability of governments will be protected. i will continue to follow these issues actively as they develop.
mr president, it seems that the uk government is not only hell-bent on making britain the dirty man of europe again, but also lowering ambition for the rest of europe. our british government has been taken to court several times now by clientearth for not meeting the current requirements on air pollution, specifically nitrogen dioxide, in the existing national emission ceilings directive. in my constituency, the government has failed to create a clean air zone in bristol, so air pollution will continue to cause at least 300 premature deaths every year within the city. it has been left to local campaigners to try to protect the people of bristol from breathing dirty air. parliament had a chance today to protect present and future generations, but the positive targets and measures in the environment committee report have been watered down to such a degree that supporting it would have meant condoning a policy of continued air pollution and the health damage it causes.
mr president, the volkswagen scandal a couple of years ago was a terrible blow to the automotive industry, but few people stopped to ask how it was that we had got to the stage where the european union was pushing for diesel fuel – which throughout our lives has been regarded as the filthier option – rather than doing what the rest of the world was doing, which was moving towards electric and hybrid cars. we now know the answer. it happened because of a brilliant lobbying operation by volkswagen and other car manufacturers which had discovered a new form of turbo engine. the result was literally fatal. we do not know how many people died as the result of pushing diesel, because the death certificate will not show ‘diesel’. it will show ‘heart failure’ or ‘pollutants getting into the brain’. but the impact was that because of corporatism and because of crony lobbying, people who would otherwise be alive today are now not. the system, in other words, is not only corrupt and oligarchic, but is literally murderous.
in writing. – we voted against this report. air pollution in europe causes 400 000 deaths per year and the national emissions ceilings directive is a crucial piece of legislation which is meant to tackle this problem by placing appropriate limits on certain key pollutants which cause high levels of damage to public health. the agreement on updating this directive which has come out of negotiations between the parliament, commission and council is unacceptably weak. it has significantly lowered ambition on a range of pollutants to the extent that it is now estimated that this weakened agreement will lead to an extra 10 000 lives lost every year, compared to the original proposal. for these reasons i voted against endorsing this weak first reading agreement and would have preferred the three institutions to return to the negotiating table to considerably improve upon this legislation.
in writing. ‒ whilst i am against further eu legislation and the consequent increased burden on member states, i also recognise the dangers caused by the pollutants mentioned in this report. i could neither vote in favour nor vote against, and therefore i had to abstain.
in writing. ‒ today ukip abstained on the legislative report on emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we in ukip firmly believe in the importance of improving air quality. air pollution does not only have a negative effect on human beings, it also causes harm to plants and animals. this said, ukip is firmly against the creation of further eu legislation. in this particular case, we are concerned of the considerable increase of administrative burden for industry and governments. member states should be free to adopt specific measures at national level. we are also concerned at the possibility of fines being levied against the uk by the eu.
in writing. ‒ today ukip abstained on the legislative report on emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we in ukip firmly believe in the importance of improving air quality. air pollution does not only have a negative effect on human beings, it also causes harm to plants and animals. this said, ukip is firmly against the creation of further eu legislation. in this particular case, we are concerned of the considerable increase of administrative burden for industry and governments. member states should be free to adopt specific measures at national level. we are also concerned at the possibility of fines being levied against the uk by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the emissions of atmospheric pollutants. this aim of the report was to establish new national emission reduction commitments from 2020 and 2030 but it was weakened to the extent that i couldn’t support it. methane was completely removed from the text, and the 2025 target was made non-binding. i want better measures to protect my constituents and their environment in wales.
in writing. ‒ the eu commission wants to replace the existing nec directive with a new one. i am against the creation of further eu legislation and i am concerned about the considerable increase of administrative burden for industry and government. however, due to the sensitivity of the issue i abstained on this report (elevated levels and long-term exposure to air pollution can lead to severe conditions affecting human health).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which constitutes an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution. poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 premature deaths each year and its economic cost for health is estimated at between eur 300bn and 900bn every year. around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected. measures to address dangerous pollutants covering all sectors are urgently needed. this deal will cut the number of premature deaths from toxic air by almost half by 2030, forcing governments across europe to act and ensuring, for the first time, that all polluting sectors, including agriculture, take responsibility for what they emit. the member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which constitutes an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution. around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected. measures to address dangerous pollutants covering all sectors are urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution. given that poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 premature deaths each year, and the economic cost for ill health estimated at between eur 300 and eur 900 billion each year – measures to address dangerous pollutants are badly needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution. poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 premature deaths each year and its economic cost for health is estimated at between eur 300bn to 900bn every year. around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected. measures to address dangerous pollutants covering all sectors are urgently needed. this deal will cut the number of premature deaths from toxic air by almost half by 2030, forcing governments across europe to act and ensuring, for the first time, that all polluting sectors, including agriculture, take responsibility for what they emit. the member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
in writing. ‒ today ukip abstained on the legislative report on emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we in ukip firmly believe in the importance of improving air quality. air pollution does not only have a negative effect on human beings, it also causes harm to plants and animals. this said, ukip is firmly against the creation of further eu legislation. in this particular case, we are concerned of the considerable increase of administrative burden for industry and governments. member states should be free to adopt specific measures at national level. we are also concerned at the possibility of fines being levied against the uk by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote as i do not wish for the eu to get involved in emissions.
in writing. – today i voted in favour of a first reading agreement on the revised national emissions ceiling directive (necd). this directive is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution. poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 premature deaths each year and its economic cost for health is estimated at between eur 300 billion and eur 900 billion every year. this deal will cut the number of premature deaths from toxic air by almost half by 2030, forcing governments across europe to act and ensuring, for the first time, that all polluting sectors, including agriculture, take responsibility for what they emit. the member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
in writing. ‒ this directive is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution. poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 premature deaths each year and its economic cost for health is estimated at between eur 300billion and eur 900 billion every year. around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected. measures to address dangerous pollutants covering all sectors are urgently needed. this deal will cut the number of premature deaths from toxic air by almost half by 2030, forcing governments across europe to act and ensuring, for the first time, that all polluting sectors, including agriculture, take responsibility for what they emit. the member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive, it is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution. poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 premature deaths each year and its economic cost for health is estimated at between eur 300 billion and eur 900 billion every year. around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected. measures to address dangerous pollutants covering all sectors are urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ this directive is an important step towards addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution. poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 premature deaths each year and its economic cost for health is estimated at between eur 300 billion and eur 900 billion every year. around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups, such as the elderly, are particularly affected. measures to address dangerous pollutants covering all sectors are urgently needed. this deal will cut the number of premature deaths from toxic air by almost half by 2030, forcing governments across europe to act and ensuring, for the first time, that all polluting sectors, including agriculture, take responsibility for their emissions. member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
mr president, we are often told that we need to be at the top table. it was a refrain throughout the recent uk referendum, but this report is a reminder that the top tables these days are global, rather than european. in this instance – the basel iii rules, the implementation of rules on financing and banking – the eu is, if you like, a regional subcontractor. it implements a decision that has been taken at a higher level, because of course finance is not continental but is worldwide in its scope and its movements. and the result of the european union’s competence in this question is that all of our member states are, in effect, represented around that table by one 28th of a european commissioner or the relevant deputising official. how on earth can that be in the interests of an economy like my country’s, which depends heavily on financial services? one of the huge bonuses of taking back our place at the world table is that we will once again be able to speak in our own interests, rather than having to contract everything through a bureaucracy which may occasionally have an interest that coincides with ours but usually, as we have learned, does not.
in writing. – i voted against this resolution and in favour of all amendments proposed by gue/ngl. the basel committee on banking supervision (bcbs), the international standard-setting body for banking regulation, is in the process of finalising new prudential regulations (reducing the level of risks depositors are exposed to), which is supposed to be finished by the end of the year. it is considering several new requirements such as restrictions on how banks use internal models to estimate risks from real-estate loans as well as corporate and infrastructure lending. banks like hsbc and deutsche bank, among others, have been lobbying fiercely against these new requirements saying they will amount to a massive increase in their capital requirements. this resolution is a statement of the european parliament’s position on the issue, in response to commission statement backing the banks. the resolution calls for the bcbs to revise its draft proposals to ensure the revision does not bring about a significant increase in overall capital requirements, and to ensure a ‘level playing field’ between eu and global banks. in other words, it calls on the basel committee to back away from imposing regulations that would protect the public and depositors.
in writing. ‒ this motion was not subject to a roll-call vote, and therefore in the interests of transparency and democracy i would like to confirm that i voted against this resolution. this was due to the call for more commission involvement in member state affairs and a push for further globalisation of banking regulations.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative motion for a resolution calls on the commission to act, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative motion for a resolution calls on the commission to act, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the finalisation of basel iii, as i believe the european parliament should take a stronger position on the financial system. weaknesses in the system have caused damage to european citizens including my constituents in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given it is vital to kick-start economic growth and create new jobs. banks are key players in achieving this goal by bolstering the eu economy. however, we have to ensure that banks are stable and well capitalised because they are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. as co-legislator, parliament needs to assess carefully the qualitative and the quantitative impact of these new reforms on the european economy, in particular the financing of infrastructure and real assets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the finalisation of basel iii. it is fundamental for our citizens that banks are an efficient component of our economy and do not pose a risk. banks must have sufficient capital to ensure that we avoid a repeat of the enormous bailouts witnessed during the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given it is vital to kick-start economic growth and create new jobs. banks are key players in achieving this goal by bolstering the eu economy yet we have to ensure they are stable and well capitalised because they are fundamental to sustainable economic growth.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative motion for a resolution calls on the commission to act, accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it calls on the eu commission to get involved in agreements that should be managed on a bilateral basis.
in writing. – today i voted in favour of the finalisation of basel iii. it is paramount that banks are an efficient component of our economy and not an element of risk. banks need to be well capitalised in order to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid the repeat of the enormous bailouts witnessed during the crisis. this resolution has been made to state parliament’s position on some key issues under discussion by the basel committee (bcbs) that will influence the legislation for the banking sector in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ it was the reckless deregulation of the banking sector which led to the financial and economic crisis of 2008, a crisis we still suffer from today. i therefore welcome eu efforts to create more responsible prudential standards for the financial sector, in order to avoid such a crash happening again.
mr president, we kept being told a hundred times, a thousand times, during our campaign that no one is talking about a militarised eu. yet, as we have just heard my comrade lynn boylan from the communist group say, the other member states immediately responded to brexit with precisely such a proposal for militarisation. well, good luck! i mean we are not going to be around, but we are still going to be allies, right? during our referendum campaign, a decision was made to deploy british troops to the defence of poland and of estonia, and it was not criticised on any side. nobody tried to press it into the arguments about the referendum, because we understand that we still have a vested interest, an immediate interest, in the prosperity and security of our european friends. we want to be good neighbours, we want to be dependable partners, but our relationship from now on is going to be based on alliance, not assimilation.
mr president, i am reminded of the famous ‘duck test’. if it looks like a duck, if it swims like a duck and it quacks like a duck, then it’s probably a duck. commissioner mogherini has told us that there are no plans for an eu army – soldiers fighting under the eu flag, yes, eu battle groups, yes, eu headquarters, yes – but no eu army. i suspect that this somewhat fails the duck test.
in writing. – i voted against this report as it goes against our position on the csdp, it supports the militarisation of the eu including calling for the reform of eu law to be reformed to allow european defence industries to benefit from state aid as their counterparts in the us do. it wishes to expand the military aspect of the common security and defence policy including investment in defence research and other capabilities whilst fostering a closer relationship with nato. in this regard it is regressive and does not suit ireland’s position of neutrality regarding military alliances.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. we are opposed to the development of a centralised eu defence and foreign policy capability. as such we reject the annual review process of csdp and cfsp and the calls for increased eu capability contained within this report. we remain fully committed to nato as the primary guarantor of security in europe. we are supportive of the nato 2% defence spending minimum. it is ukip party policy to ensure the uk remains at least above 2% and we would also encourage fellow nato allies to meet this commitment. we are however uneasy at language contained within this report in which the eu calls on member states to meet this requirement. there is a fine line between this and the 2% commitment to nato being replaced with one to the eu. this risks further undermining nato and risks the position of traditionally neutral countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. we are opposed to the development of a centralised eu defence and foreign policy capability. as such we reject the annual review process of csdp and cfsp and the calls for increased eu capability contained within this report. we remain fully committed to nato as the primary guarantor of security in europe. we are supportive of the nato 2% defence spending minimum. it is ukip party policy to ensure the uk remains at least above 2% and we would also encourage fellow nato allies to meet this commitment. we are however uneasy at language contained within this report in which the eu calls on member states to meet this requirement. there is a fine line between this and the 2% commitment to nato being replaced with one to the eu. this risks further undermining nato and risks the position of traditionally neutral countries
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy as i am opposed to the militarisation of the european union. i believe the eu could play an invaluable role on the world stage in conflict prevention. i am engaged in the campaign to establish a peace institute in wales which will help promote peace in our society and in our everyday lives. the eu should have its own peace institute to help develop a policy that would bring people real security.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. i am opposed to the development of a centralised eu defence and foreign policy capability. as such i reject the annual review process of csdp and cfsp and the calls for increased eu capability contained within this report. i remain fully committed to nato as the primary guarantor of security in europe. i am supportive of the nato 2% defence spending minimum. it is ukip party policy to ensure the uk remains at least above 2% and we would also encourage fellow nato allies to meet this commitment. i am however uneasy at language contained within this report in which the eu calls on member states to meet this requirement. there is a fine line between this and the 2% commitment to nato being replaced with one to the eu. this risks further undermining nato and risks the position of traditionally neutral countries.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote. overall, i support the report. we need to provide a renewed focus on where csdp can best contribute to global security, through a full cycle approach to tackling conflict, using a comprehensive approach and complementing nato. nevertheless, the report offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato, or interfere in what should be member state or industry driven activity.
in writing. ‒ overall, i support the report. the need for europeans to work together to improve their defence capabilities has never been greater. an effective and credible european security and defence policy is, therefore, the foundation of our citizens’ well-being and welfare. we need to provide a renewed focus on where csdp can best contribute to global security, through a full cycle approach to tackling conflict, using a comprehensive approach and complementing nato, which is the cornerstone of european defence. however, the report offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato, or interfere in what should be member state or industry driven activity. we therefore abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. we are opposed to the development of a centralised eu defence and foreign policy capability. as such we reject the annual review process of csdp and cfsp and the calls for increased eu capability contained within this report. we remain fully committed to nato as the primary guarantor of security in europe. we are supportive of the nato 2% defence spending minimum. it is ukip party policy to ensure the uk remains at least above 2% and we would also encourage fellow nato allies to meet this commitment. we are however uneasy at language contained within this report in which the eu calls on member states to meet this requirement. there is a fine line between this and the 2% commitment to nato being replaced with one to the eu. this risks further undermining nato and risks the position of traditionally neutral countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it is a blatant attempt to form an eu army.
in writing. – today i abstained on the report on the implementation of common security and defence policy. the need for europeans to work together to improve their defence capabilities has never been greater. an effective and credible european security and defence policy is, therefore, the foundation of our citizens’ well-being and welfare. we need to provide a renewed focus on where csdp can best contribute to global security, through a full cycle approach to tackling conflict, using a comprehensive approach and complementing nato, which is the cornerstone of european defence. however, the report offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato, or interfere in what should be member state or industry driven activity. we therefore abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ overall, i support the report. the need for europeans to work together to improve their defence capabilities has never been greater. an effective and credible european security and defence policy is, therefore, the foundation of our citizens’ well-being and welfare. we need to provide a renewed focus on where csdp can best contribute to global security, through a full cycle approach to tackling conflict, using a comprehensive approach and complementing nato, which is the cornerstone of european defence. however, the report offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato, or interfere in what should be member state or industry driven activity. my colleagues and i therefore abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ overall, i support the report. the need for europeans to work together to improve their defence capabilities has never been greater. an effective and credible european security and defence policy is, therefore, the foundation of our citizens’ well-being and welfare. we need to provide a renewed focus on where csdp can best contribute to global security, through a full cycle approach to tackling conflict, using a comprehensive approach and complementing nato, which is the cornerstone of european defence. however, the report offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato, or interfere in what should be a member state or industry driven activity. labour meps therefore abstained on the final vote. the eu must remain above all a project of peace. in our common security and defence policy we must emphasise the need to refrain from selling arms to regimes which violate human rights and commit war crimes. the eu must always stand for human rights, democracy, and the rule of law, and nothing in our csdp should ever compromise those commitments.
mr president, i want to echo what my friend and colleague mr jurek just said. marxism and leninism must, in crude mathematical terms, be reckoned the most murderous ideology ever devised by human intelligence, and yet this is a point that has to be made anew in every generation. i saw an opinion poll the other day that showed that a third of american millennials believe that george w. bush killed more people than stalin did. well, here’s a nice easy way to remember the difference. the limerick comes courtesy of the great poet and historian robert conquest: ‘there was an old bastard named lenin who did two or three million men in. that’s a lot to have done in but where he did one in, that old bastard stalin did ten in.’
mr president, this report is all about an eu communication to counteract anti-eu propaganda. i do not think that taxpayers’ money should be spent on this because it is very dangerous when the state starts getting involved in telling us what is, and what is not, acceptable to be said. perhaps, being fair and reasonable people, the eu would be amenable to a compromise – to spending half of the money countering pro—eu propaganda, the same politicians who told us that leaving the eu would lead to world war iii or the end of western political civilisation as we know it. perhaps we could have a bit of help countering some of that propaganda. the uk government spent eur 10 million sending a booklet to every household with pro-eu propaganda telling people to vote for the eu, but actually what you often find is that propaganda backfires. i am sure it would be only too fair to counteract pro—eu propaganda and nonsense as well, but what are the chances of the eu voting for that? zero.
mr president, this report takes an extremely selective, aggressive, hostile and confrontational position towards russia, ignoring other countries guilty of many of the same things. my position and voting decisions should not – i would emphasise – be interpreted as defending russia, or even supporting russia, but rather as registering my support for stopping the eu from needlessly aggravating what is acknowledged to be a poor and increasingly negative relationship with russia. contributing to a return of the cold war mentality is unhelpful, and binding the united kingdom to such inflammatory and confrontational statements is not in my country’s interests.
mr president, in the novel nineteen eighty-four, george orwell created a world of three continents in conflict with each another. the governments of the day, in that novel, managed to control their own people by the creation of propaganda. their own propaganda was called ‘news speak’ and they controlled people for having thought crimes. just as, in that book, oceania was against eurasia, we now have proposals in this particular document to pit the eu against russia. this creates propaganda within its own text. for example, in paragraph one of the report, it says that russia employs a wide range of tools such as russia today and sputnik yet, in paragraph 36 of this same report, it says that the eu must create its own communication policies and television companies to fight russia. one propaganda against another does not make things fair.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the recent breakdown in relations between the west and russia, of which both parties are guilty, has produced far more insecurity in europe. diplomacy and deterrence are delicate mechanisms. we are uneasy with the constant peddling of aggression and justifications for more eu action.
in writing. ‒ taxpayers’ money should not be used this way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on strategic communication to counteract anti-eu propaganda by third parties. cyber warfare is increasingly used in several countries together with restrictions on the freedoms of independent media and civil society. this is unacceptable to the people in wales that i represent who value the freedom of the press. we have been all too aware in the past year what a huge impact disinformation and misinformation campaigns can have on our society.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the recent breakdown in relations between the west and russia, of which both parties are guilty, has produced far more insecurity in europe. diplomacy and deterrence are delicate mechanisms. i feel uneasy with the constant peddling of aggression and justifications for more eu action.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the final vote on this resolution. labour meps agree that countering propaganda and radicalisation requires cooperation between member states. however, there are elements in the report itself which could be perceived as propaganda. russia is not the only state involved in this activity; and putting isis on the same footing as a state is not appropriate. therefore, we believe that supporting quality and independent journalism more actively is the way forward.
in writing. ‒ eplp abstained on the final vote on the resolution. we agree that countering propaganda and radicalisation requires cooperation between member states. however, there are elements in the report itself which could be perceived as a propaganda. russia is not the only state involved in this activity; and putting isis on the same footing as a state is not appropriate. therefore, we believe that supporting quality and independent journalism more actively is the way forward.
in writing. ‒ labour meps abstained on the final vote on the resolution. we agree that countering propaganda and radicalisation requires cooperation between member states. however, there are elements in the report itself which could be perceived as a propaganda. russia is not the only state involved in this activity; and putting isis on the same footing as a state is not appropriate. therefore, we believe that supporting quality and independent journalism more actively is the way forward.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. the recent breakdown in relations between the west and russia, of which both parties are guilty, has produced far more insecurity in europe. diplomacy and deterrence are delicate mechanisms. we are uneasy with the constant peddling of aggression and justifications for more eu action.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it calls to spend our tax money to counter anti eu propaganda. anti eu propaganda normally means facts.
in writing. – eplp abstained on the final vote on the resolution. we agree that countering propaganda and radicalisation requires cooperation between member states. however, there are elements in the report itself which could be perceived as a propaganda. russia is not the only state involved in this activity; and putting isis on the same footing as a state is not appropriate. therefore, we believe that supporting quality and independent journalism more actively is the way forward.
in writing. ‒ eplp abstained on the final vote on the resolution. we agree that countering propaganda and radicalisation requires cooperation between member states. however, there are elements in the report itself which could be perceived as a propaganda. russia is not the only state involved in this activity; and putting isis on the same footing as a state is not appropriate. therefore, we believe that supporting quality and independent journalism more actively is the way forward.
in writing. ‒ with eplp, i abstained on the final vote on the resolution. we agree that countering propaganda and radicalisation requires cooperation between member states. however, there are elements in the report itself which could be perceived as a propaganda. russia is not the only state involved in this activity; and putting isis on the same footing as a state is not appropriate. therefore, we believe that supporting quality and independent journalism more actively is the way forward.
in writing. ‒ eplp abstained on the final vote on the resolution. we agree that countering propaganda and radicalisation requires cooperation between member states. however, there are elements in the report itself which could be perceived as propaganda. russia is not the only state involved in this activity. also, putting daesh (isis) on the same footing as a state is not appropriate. therefore, we believe that actively supporting quality and independent journalism is the way forward. as shadow rapporteur on the cult committee opinion, it is clear to me that support for independent media and promotion of the freedom of the press, recognising the role of education for media literacy, and the need for putting in place a strategic cultural diplomacy platform at eu level must be the pillars of eu actions aimed at countering propaganda. we must also work to encourage and promote high editorial standards in journalism so as to counter misinformation and propaganda.
mr president, earlier in this chamber we may have had a bit of an interpretation issue. in the english interpretation of what was said, president schulz was portrayed as saying that he would allow someone to speak so that she could not say he was acting like a terrorist. i am sure the president of parliament would not speak in such a way intentionally, as this would come across as inappropriate for the office, so could i just please ask that the interpretation of whatever was said is checked, because that is certainly how it came across in english. i am sure that is not how it was intended in german. i won’t be leaping to any conclusions against mr schulz over this, but i would just ask that we all please remember in future to be very careful over the interpretation being accurate before leaping to conclusions over words that have been used in this chamber.
in writing. – the motion for a resolution, from helga stevens, was a straight forward apolitical and rights-based motion for a resolution on sign languages and sign language interpreters. it was an encompassing motion for a resolution and received unanimous support across parliament.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative, non-binding, motion for a resolution. there are many aspects of the resolution which ukip in principle could support and of course we want to further help those people who are deaf, blind, partially sighted and hard of hearing. however we cannot support the eu telling member states what they should be doing or in any way give an excuse for action at eu level. the only people who should decide these things is our elected national government, not unaccountable eu institutions. as the resolution itself didn’t contain anything which called on the eu or the commission to act, ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative, non-binding, motion for a resolution. there are many aspects of the resolution which ukip in principle could support and of course we want to further help those people who are deaf, blind, partially sighted and hard of hearing. however we cannot support the eu telling member states what they should be doing or in any way give an excuse for action at eu level. the only people who should decide these things is our elected national government, not unaccountable eu institutions. as the resolution itself didn’t contain anything which called on the eu or the commission to act, ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution on sign language. i support more rights for sign language users as well as the measures called for in the resolution regarding professional qualifications for interpreters. it is an issue of accessibility and equality. representing a bilingual nation where the rights of welsh speakers have been hard won, i know the importance of equality in relation to language.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because i oppose eu interference and action in eu member states regarding sign language, but i don’t oppose the use of sign language. it should be up to national governments to decide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, given that access to high-quality sign language services and measures of reasonable accommodation need to be strengthened in order to ensure equal treatment and participation of persons with disabilities in society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i fundamentally believe that high-quality sign language services and measures of reasonable accommodation need to be strengthened across the eu. this is the only way in which persons with disabilities can receive equal treatment and fully participate in society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is that high-quality sign language services and measures of reasonable accommodation need to be strengthened across the eu. this is the only way in which persons with disabilities can receive equal treatment and fully participate in society.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative, non-binding, motion for a resolution. there are many aspects of the resolution which ukip in principle could support and of course we want to further help those people who are deaf, blind, partially sighted and hard of hearing. however we cannot support the eu telling member states what they should be doing or in any way give an excuse for action at eu level. the only people who should decide these things is our elected national government, not unaccountable eu institutions. as the resolution itself didn’t contain anything which called on the eu or the commission to act, ukip abstained
in writing. ‒ whilst i support the right for people to use sign language and i think it is a great way for people to communicate i do not wish to see the eu involved in such things. therefore i abstained.
in writing. – today i voted in favour of this resolution which seeks to improve the situation of the sign languages, their access and availability, and strengthen the role of professional sign language interpreters, in order to step up the fight against discrimination based on disability. access to high-quality sign language services and measures of reasonable accommodation need to be strengthened in order to ensure equal treatment and participation of persons with disabilities in society.
in writing. ‒ as a disability rights champion and as a qualified bsl signer, i welcome eu action to promote sign language learning. the eu must promote a non-discriminatory approach to the use of a sign language, as required under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which has been ratified by the eu and all eu member states except one.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this objection to the commission proposal to renew approval for the active substance bentazone, a broad-use herbicide. the commission is proposing to approve bentazone for the maximum time limit of 15 years even though the data available has substantial gaps and whilst it is also a substance which can easily leak into ground water and is suspected of interfering with human reproduction. no active substance should be approved for safe use without the essential data which proves its safety. the european commission must request and assess the relevant missing information before deciding to renew the authorisation. the european ombudsman earlier this year called on the commission to severely restrict the use of this process, known as the confirmatory data procedure. the commission however has ignored this recommendation and infringed the precautionary principle by proposing the approval of bentazone. for these reasons, i voted against its reauthorisation and called on the commission to withdraw its proposal and submit a new one.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because bentazone is a much-needed herbicide within the agricultural industry and is currently approved for use in the uk. with every herbicide we ban across the eu, we put more farmers out of work and rely more heavily on unrestricted imported goods. this leads to the potential of worsening environmental standards globally - in essence, outsourcing environmental damage.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the non-legislative resolution on renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone. we believe it is important to assess missing safety information on the use of this substance. however, we would like this issue to be decided by national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the non-legislative resolution on renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone. we believe it is important to assess missing safety information on the use of this substance. however, we would like this issue to be decided by national parliaments
in writing. ‒ i firmly oppose this resolution which is factually incorrect. by seeking to object to renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone, parliament is pandering to half-truths and hearsay over scientific assessment. i also object to the fact that the ombudsman was misquoted in the resolution, and to the resolution’s conclusion that the commission has breached the provisions of the regulation; this is simply incorrect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i believe the evidence shows that this policy is the correct one. we are very aware of the dangers of chemicals in our environment in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the non-legislative resolution on renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone. i believe it is important to assess missing safety information on the use of this substance. however, i would like this issue to be decided by national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection given the commission should take into account all necessary data confirming safety of a given substance before issuing the authorisations. the precautionary principle should be the guiding principle in the authorisation process of plant protection products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because the commission should take into account all necessary data confirming safety of a given substance before issuing the authorisations. the precautionary principle should be the guiding principle in the authorisation process of plant protection products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection given the commission should take into account all necessary data confirming safety of a given substance before issuing the authorisations.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the non-legislative resolution on renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone. we believe it is important to assess missing safety information on the use of this substance. however, we would like this issue to be decided by national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i do not wish to see the eu involved in the regulation of chemicals.
in writing. – today i voted in favour of this objection. the commission should take into account all necessary data confirming safety of a given substance before issuing the authorisations. the approval period should be proportionate to the possible risks inherent in the use of such substances. the precautionary principle should be the guiding principle in the authorisation process of plant protection products.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, violence against women is a very real and all too frequent reality for many women worldwide. in the eu alone, research has shown that one third of women have experienced physical and/or sexual violence since the age of 15. this equates to 62 million women. that is my member state, the population of my country, represented in that number. while cases are reported and action is taken, there are still far too many instances where women are trapped, suffering in silence and with no conceivable way out. violence against women does not just apply to physical abuse. it also covers the emotional manipulation and psychological trauma thousands of women are subjected to just because they are women. violence against women is a form of gender-based violence. it is gross, inexcusable and a violation of human rights. given the varying forms violence against women can take, as well as the numerous avenues through which such violence can be executed, no single intervention will result in its elimination. a combination of infrastructural, legal, cultural, educational and social actions, in addition to the sharing of best practices between member states, is essential to raise awareness and stimulate the action needed, so i welcome the commissioner’s reassurances on all of those areas. the istanbul convention opens the path to make change possible. i therefore urge member states, including my own, the uk, to ratify and implement the convention if they have not already done so.
on behalf of the enf group. – madam president, you are not addressing the silent agenda, and i do not call on anyone in here to do anything, because you cover up the fact that young migrants, often of muslim backgrounds, are over-represented in the violence against women statistics – which, by the way, is not the same as claiming that all muslim migrants are prone to this type of behaviour. their crimes against women, each year, in my country: female genital mutilation, 5 700 reported cases; honour killings, around a dozen; polygamy, around 20 000 illegal marriages; false marriage, 1 200 reported each year; child marriages, 5 000 to 8 000; and all this is done in the shadow of sharia law. it took years before the rotherham child abuse case was brought to light in the uk, out of fear of being labelled racist. in the uk we still have a parallel society of sharia courts operating right under our noses. in fact all over europe we see the same pattern. those claiming to champion women’s rights are in denial and attempt to sweep this problem under the carpet. no amount of eu law or funds will make a difference until this is addressed. the truth is that by letting millions of young migrant men with muslim backgrounds into our countries, we have submitted our women to these attacks. it is a form of terrorism. no more cover-ups, no more mitigating circumstances, no more political correctness. like president-elect trump, i would like more scrutiny of those you are letting in, but in the eu that won’t happen, so in order to protect our women, we need to drain the eu swamp and then make europe great again. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – reluctant as i am to offer ms atkinson the opportunity to spout more of her vile views, i do feel compelled to ask her: does she believe that in the uk, of which she appears to be so fond, violence against women is a very recent thing that has only occurred with immigration from muslim countries, or will she knowledge that violence against women has been a scourge in our society for centuries?
blue-card answer. – of course, mrs girling, i accept that. i have been fighting against this type of violence all my life as a woman who has actually been affected by violence in the home and on the street. my statistics are government statistics, but it is a fact, whether you like it or not, and that is why our government is having an investigation at the moment into sharia law. until we actually address the problems and we address that it is the muslim migrants coming into our countries because of open borders ... and that is why you will be going, madam. you will be leaving this chamber because we voted for brexit and because you all wonder why the populace are on the rise in america and in holland and in other countries: because of people like you and them across there.
madam president, in northern ireland in 2014-2015, there were over 13 000 reported incidents of domestic violence. the police service of northern ireland responded to one domestic incident every 19 minutes. in this period, there were 2.5 times as many domestic abuse crimes as drug offences. these are unacceptable figures, and we must do everything in our power to tackle these awful abuses. in northern ireland, the 24-hour domestic and sexual violence helpline is managed by the women’s aid federation. in 2014-15, it managed 27 000 calls and reported a rise in the percentage of male callers, and in this chamber we should not forget that men are often the victims of these crimes as well. so, it is right that, both in this parliament and in our national parliaments, we send a message. the government is not just willing, but ambitious to tackle these abuses at the earliest stages. international agreements can be pursued, but local solutions are necessary.
in writing. – this friday we are marking the international day for the elimination of violence against women. it is a reminder that this violation of human rights continues globally. 1 in 3 women worldwide have experienced physical or sexual violence. 4.5 million people are victims of forced sexual exploitation – 98% of them are women and girls. 32 countries exempt rape perpetrators from prosecution when they are married to or subsequently marry the victim. just now turkey tried to reintroduce the inhumane law. we can only stop this by working together. more men must stand up against violence, denounce it, and stop it. male leaders, including traditional and religious leaders, must lead the way. violence against women is a serious impediment to women’s progress in any area of life. combating all forms of violence against women must therefore be a priority for the eu and i call on the eu to ratify the istanbul convention. we need to address the root causes of gender inequality and support better services for women in violent situations, more accurate reporting of risk and prevalence, and provide greater help for women’s organisations. all of us must work tirelessly to stop violence, whatever form it takes.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as we have heard from the previous three speakers, jordan is facing a very serious financial and economic crisis brought on by the instability in the region and the refugee flows coming from that. according to the unhcr, there are 650 000 refugees, and as we have heard from the commissioner, possibly a million, and as we have heard from mr cicu, possibly 1.4 million. that is a significant number no matter how you measure it. yet despite its economic difficulties, jordan has not followed the example of other countries in europe and around the world. it is not calling for walls to be built around its nation. on the contrary, it has shown a remarkable generosity to its neighbours and has kept its borders open. because of that generosity, we should be as generous as possible to the country. jordan, also in difficult circumstances, continues to have an effective democratic system. it includes a multi-party parliamentary system. it respects the rule of law and human rights in jordan are guaranteed, and of course, these are all preconditions for receiving mfa. like the rapporteur, i am disappointed that we could not have been more generous, but also like the rapporteur, i am pleased that during the trilogue we managed to find a compromise that at least looks like we can promise more money to jordan in 2017, if the need arises. i strongly support this agreement and congratulate both the rapporteur and the commission on their work.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, as with corporation tax avoidance, the biggest culprits in vat fraud are multinationals. overseas sellers use big names like amazon to sell vat-free products in the eu, and multinationals turn a blind eye. this is the cause of the biggest share of the eu’s vat gap. these companies must take some responsibility for combating such fraud, which drives local businesses to the wall and deprives the public purse of millions in revenue. we need to ensure that decisions about vat rates and exemptions are in the hands of local, accountable governments. the irish government, for example, claims that the eu rules do not allow a lower rate on life-saving defibrillators. vat, like all indirect taxes, has a regressive effect on distribution, and the poor lose the largest portion of their income. we should ensure that our vat systems include both luxury rates and reduced rates on essential items.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, for several years now the vat rules in the eu have been out of touch with small businesses and the way in which citizens make a living. the commission’s vat action plan makes important proposals to bridge this divide by introducing a single definitive vat regime for the eu, and i welcome this. for two years now i have been raising the issue of the difficulties of the vat mini one-stop-shop, or ‘vat moss’ as it is known, ever since small businesses in south west england began contacting me to say that the changes would put them out of business. i have submitted questions to the commission, written to uk ministers and commissioner ansip, and most recently submitted an amendment to this report, constantly calling for a vat threshold of eur 100 000 for start-ups and small businesses. so i am pleased that other meps have joined the call, and we can all welcome the commission’s proposals for this vat threshold in the final parliamentary report. we must ensure that the vat regime works for people, not against them, in our overall goal of tackling tax fraud. lastly, i am delighted that we also have a reference to the social, environmental and gender dimension of vat on certain products. we can and should use lower rates and zero rates to encourage renewable energy and the insulation of buildings, and to prevent discrimination against menstruating women. no intervention would be complete without a shout-out to the tireless tampon tax campaigners in the uk and across the continent! the end tampon tax campaign in the uk was phenomenal and i encourage all of you here to sign our written declaration no 89 to bring the success achieved in the uk to the rest of europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i certainly can and thank you for giving me the opportunity. i went on to talk about the tampon tax and the fact that women across europe are facing additional tax on necessary sanitary products, which obviously men do not have to use. some countries have reduced the rates, but other countries still charge what are actually luxury rates of vat on tampons and sanitary towels, and on moon cups as well. so what we are suggesting – and this is where you can sign our written declaration and share it with your friends – is that all countries zero-rate those products which women use.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, by exiting the eu britain will soon restore full sovereignty over taxation matters. we will be able to abolish vat and design our own sales tax suited to our own country. that tax could be flexible: if we like, we could charge a higher rate on sectors dominated by imports; we could choose to levy higher rates for luxury goods and lower rates for staple goods, thereby countering objections to the regressive nature of vat. the great thing is that it will be up to us. our democracy will be restored, and where issues arise we will be able to address them without needing the european commission’s say-so. the government of the fifth largest economy in the world will even acquire the power to make its own decisions on the taxation of sanitary products. you lot can work towards a standard vat regime controlled by brussels. we will set our own taxes, thank you very much.
mr president, 1973 will forever stand in the history of britain as a year of infamy. on 1 january that year, as a consequence of the prime minister ted heath’s signature, we joined the eu. later that year, his chancellor lord barber introduced vat into the uk. the vat is really an example of everything that is wrong about the european union. it started at 10% but has grown to 20%. it is swollen in size and complexity. in the uk, it has 3 200 pages of tax legislation, and as the commissioner said: it cannot cope with innovation or start-ups. 130 countries, have adopted it, yes, but one significant country – the united states – has not. it is more innovative and is more flexible, and has an economy greater and better than that of those in the european union. just as the british people recognised and reversed a decision of ted heath and his huge deceit on sovereignty, on brexit the uk government has a huge opportunity to reverse vat and have a more flexible regime in taxation.
mr president, i would like first to commend the rapporteur, mr langen, for his work on this file, as well as the commission for its continuing endeavours to clamp down on vat fraud. any new vat system must of course promote economic growth in a sustainable way, while protecting public policy objectives. in that regard, i would like to underline the need for the european commission to speedily make clear when and how it will honour its pledge to introduce a vat threshold for small businesses engaged in cross-border trade of e-services. many british firms have had a very difficult time adjusting to the new vat system, with little help from the current british government. i hope that the commission at least can help them by stating exactly when, and at what level, the threshold will be reintroduced. i would also like to underline the need for the commission and member states to work to exempt essential products from vat, not least sanitary products. vat is a regressive tax, when applied to sanitary products like tampons and towels, it becomes a sexist tax too.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my group welcomes the text agreed with the council in trialogue. the uk has already introduced automatic enrolment schemes, so all employees enjoy workplace pensions with contributions from their employers. i therefore hope that this legislation will encourage the provision of work- based pensions across the whole of the eu. this report makes substantial improvements to the commission’s original proposal. it is a less prescriptive text that recognises pensions as a member state competence, focuses more on the provisions for cross-border iorps, and deletes the delegated acts originally proposed by the commission. employees will now receive a tailored annual pension benefit statement and will be consulted if there are decisions which affect their pension payouts. i am happy that there are no harmonised eu solvency requirements. i support the more lenient funding regime, which was included, rather than the fully funded model. allowing for periods of under-funding is important to reflect instances such as mergers, which would prevent funds from being fully funded at all times. i am pleased the legislation is now more proportionate and that iorps with less than 100 members will have reduced compliance commitments. finally, my group is happy to see that if a member state has equivalent protection in place then the requirement to appoint a depository for defined contribution schemes would not be necessary. we are pleased with this report and we thank mr hayes for his excellent work.
mr president, europe’s population is aging. today we have four people of working age for everyone over 65, but by 2060 this ratio will be halved. this means that the pension system we have today will become untenable. this is a critical piece of legislation and my congratulations to the rapporteur brian hayes and to the shadow rapporteurs for ensuring that the pension system is simplified while retaining essential information, for boosting cross-border schemes, and for introducing new rules on greater transparency on remuneration policy for the managers of pension funds. high standards on governance of pension funds are essential if we are to tackle scandals like the bhs one in the uk. pension schemes have to be well run by managers who are fit and proper, to ensure that ordinary members get vital information about how their money is being spent and what they can hope to receive once they retire. let us not forget that pension funds are key players in making the capital markets union a reality. therefore, it is really important that they take more environmental, social and corporate governance criteria into account when investing, but at the same time, if we want these funds to ensure they have a good return for future pensioners, it is important they improve the diversity of their portfolios, not just concentrating on investing in oecd countries with low economic growth.
rapporteur. – mr president, our thanks must go to commissioner vella for delivering this ambitious action plan against wildlife trafficking. in preparing my report i must thank my shadow rapporteurs, the committee on international trade, the committee on legal affairs, the committee on development and the committee on fisheries for their opinions, the secretariat of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the policy team of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (alde), and my own staff, who have all worked very hard on this report. also, thanks to all the members of meps4wildlife who have consistently backed the drive to bring this plan forward. whilst we have been meeting here today in strasbourg an estimated 44 more elephants have died: one every 15 minutes. they are poached, killed most brutally to make useless trinkets out of their tusks. but the problem of wildlife trafficking is not just elephant or rhino poaching. brutal as this is, it is not the whole story. wildlife trafficking is the trade in plants, animals, fish, birds and insects collected illegally – taken from the wild and sold in the global market place. that market place is huge. europe is a market and a transit route for these goods. it is frogs’ legs, caviar or sharks for the catering industry. it is skins, furs and timber for the fashion and furniture industry. it is bones and scales for medicines, and reptiles and birds for pets. the lists go on and on. the risk of detection is low and the financial rewards attract criminals who launder money, destabilise communities and fund their illegal activities. in short, it is terrorism against nature and it has to be stopped. my report builds on the commission’s good action plan by calling for some more ways to reduce wildlife trafficking. first, wildlife trafficking must be given the same priority as drugs, human trafficking and money laundering in europol’s serious and organised crime threat assessments. secondly, while it is illegal in source countries to seize certain species, they have no protection here in the eu, and this is a gap in the law. we should introduce a us-style ‘lacey act’ at eu level. thirdly, better reporting needs coordination and watching. an eu wildlife trafficking coordinator would ensure this and watch member states. this works very well with our human trafficking work, and we should repeat it here. fourthly, until we can prove otherwise, we must introduce a full and immediate ban on the trade, export and re-export of ivory across the whole of the eu, including ‘pre-convention’ ivory, and rhino horns. finally, the punishment must fit the crime. the un convention on serious and organised crime sets a minimum of four years’ internment. all member states should sign up now and implement common standards of justice so these gangs know they will be caught and punished anywhere in the eu. at the end of the day, the fight against wildlife trafficking stands and falls with the eu’s member states. they must make this plan an urgent priority. the public is with us on this, the politicians now need to act. this is about fighting crime, but also about protecting the planet and its wondrous gifts for future generations.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. blue-card question. – mr president, illegal wildlife trade is a global problem with implications that go beyond wildlife: the threat to our ecosystems as well as our global security. sharp increases in wildlife crime and the increasing involvement of organised criminals only go to emphasise that the moment to act is now. we need a full-ranging, comprehensive approach, one that tackles not only economic development in source countries but also supply chains and demand in domestic markets and other destination countries. trade policy, customs, law enforcement and development policies must be coherent and complementary, and sufficient resources must be available. the eu and its member states must lead these efforts, ensuring that appropriate wildlife sustainability provisions are prioritised in its trade policy and included in all future trade agreements, with the aim of elimination of illegal wildlife trade. my own-initiative report, which will be voted in the committee on international trade (inta) next january, reflects these concerns and the ambitions of my colleague catherine bearder’s report. i therefore welcome this report and i am fully supportive of it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, if i can beg your time on this, he has actually referred his question directly to the rapporteur. so i do not know how i can answer a question that is referred directly to the rapporteur. is the rapporteur able to answer this question, one might ask? personally, i do not believe that trophy hunting is a suitable way to tackle this problem. but mr president, i leave it to your discretion as to who answers this specific question.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur mrs bearder, who brings her usual rigour and enthusiasm to this subject and it is very welcome. we need to start taking wildlife trafficking more seriously. it is a transnational organised crime, which requires a suitably serious and coordinated response. it has far-reaching implications; not only does it contribute to biodiversity loss and species extinction, it also helps to fund organised criminal groups which undermine regional stability and the rule of law. i believe in smart regulation, and that means clear and enforceable rules with an absolute minimum of derogations and exceptions. no excuses and no confusion. on that basis, i would like to echo mr eck’s call for consideration of a trade ban on exotic species, because all the way through these discussions i ask myself why do we need to trade legally in these species at all. i fully support the calls for a more coordinated joined-up approach to combating wildlife trafficking across different policy areas such as trade, development, foreign affairs, justice and home affairs, and i wish her every success with this report.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers tonight for their support and their kind words about this report. it is also very good to hear that the commission is starting implementation. but, as with any of this, the important thing is enforcement and making sure that we do what we say we are signed up to do. so we will be looking to you, commissioner, to make sure that that is done. on the issue of trophy hunting: trophy hunting pretends to be about conservation. if it was about conservation we would not have a problem, but there are tens of thousands of animals taken from the wild and it is creating a market for illegal trophies and putting money into big businesses. it is not helping local communities. it is not helping the animals. it is very complicated to stop wildlife trafficking. the source countries need help. we need to stop the money laundering and the gun running. i am very pleased to hear about the online marketplace, which is also a really growing market. biodiversity is under huge pressure; climate change and human pressure on wildlife areas are adding to that, but wildlife trafficking is a concerted attack for profit. it is heart-breaking to see what is happening. out there are brave game rangers risking their lives, and others are facing determined criminals. we face telling our children: once there were elephants, or rhinos, or redwood trees. this action plan is good, but so far it is just a paper document. we have to work altogether to turn that into action, and quickly. the biosphere is under attack. it is the life-sustaining system of our planet and it is the beautiful result of millions of years of evolution. without action now we will lose most of it forever. we in the eu can and must protect it, and we can set an example for the rest of the world about how we can do it. this report and action plan is the start of a journey. please support my report, and then we can really get to work on tackling this horrible crime.
mr president, this report calls on member states to stop over-regulating small transport businesses, which i find most hypocritical. across the uk, self-employed hauliers and sme hauliers have been drowned in eu legislation. the driver’s certificate of professional competence has crippled the uk’s small transport businesses, costing them an absolute fortune. this has led to a massive drop in the number of qualified drivers and also to a significant shortage of drivers. the eu should stop criticising member states and start looking a little bit closer to home.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as we know, aviation agreements date back to 1913 when france and germany exchanged notes over the movement of their airships. following phenomenal technological advances during world war ii, the transition that moved us from airships to biplanes to the invention of the jet engine meant we were now developing the ability to move more and more people and freight around the world. as a result, in 1944, 54 countries signed the chicago convention, which is an important reminder that these agreements predate the foundation of the united nations. in 1946 the first bilateral between the uk and the us became the model. this consisted of a schedule which outlined prices and capacity in order to regulate air traffic between two countries. these were registered under the auspices of the international civil aviation organisation (icao), where additional criteria were lodged. the eu court judgment of 2002 sent a clear message: that, in order to have the eu nature of our carriers recognised, member states had to allow access for the relevant third country. to conclude, while it is vitally important that we are updated with the progress of negotiations, we should be aware that unrealistic demands on third-country airlines who wish to access the eu will ultimately damage the opportunities for our airlines to expand their networks worldwide. ultimately, these agreements are about trade, jobs and wealth and it is vital that we take a pragmatic approach.
mr president, i would like to say to the ombudsman that her work has really been invaluable for us in increasing transparency in the european union. in the face of rising populism, transparency is vital for the long—term legitimacy of the european union. coming from the uk, that is something which is very dear to my heart. ombudsman, i strongly support your work in opening up the black boxes of eu decision—making, but to do this we need to go further. i would like to highlight three areas. we should ensure that the transparency that has been achieved around the ttip negotiations is replicated for all eu trade negotiations. we should see the publication of all documents both from trialogues between the parliament, council and commission on proposed legislation, and from commission expert groups. transparency is crucial to rebuild trust in the european project. democracy is a fragile flower and transparency and public debate are its water and feedstock. so going into a new year, i would plead that you remain a good gardener.
mr president, the repeated scandals involving european commissioners have to stop. the anger over barroso’s plum new role in goldman sachs extends right across the political spectrum. more importantly, it extends far beyond this chamber to the millions of citizens who have borne the brunt of the austerity policies which he imposed. add juncker and luxleaks, arias cañete in the panama papers, and kroes in the bahamas leaks, and we see the corrosive impact of corruption in the european institutions. we are not talking about conflicts of interest – it is full—blown corruption. barroso shows that the 18—month cooling—off period in the code of conduct is entirely inadequate. it should be five years at least. sanctions must apply for breaches of the treaty obligation on commissioners to act with integrity. but we need more. i urge the ombudsman’s office to take a lead on closing the commission’s revolving door. ombudsman, there is a lot faith in this chamber in your ability to do that.
mr president, gui minhai, also known as michael gui, is a chinese—born swedish scholar and, importantly from my point of view, a hong kong—based book publisher. he was a prolific author, and probably still would be but for his current situation, of books regarding chinese politics and political figures. he went ‘missing’, presumed abducted, 13 months ago. as a british mep, i am citing his case today given the relationship between the united kingdom and china following the handover of hong kong. gui minhai appears – and i emphasise ‘appears’ – to have been the subject of an unlawful rendition by chinese law enforcers. if so, international law has been violated by his kidnappers. this abduction and that of his colleagues represents enforced disappearance, which violates a range of fundamental human rights. no country has the right to snatch people and then hold them against their will, seemingly with the involvement and connivance of a national government. i today call upon china to release gui minhai and his colleagues and, in doing so, to demonstrate to the world its adherence to human rights legislation. in doing so, china will gain international respect and acclaim for such action. i would be delighted to initiate such appreciation and acknowledgment in this parliamentary chamber as soon as guy minhai is released.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, since his disappearance from thailand in october 2015, the eu has closely followed the case of the hong kong resident and swedish citizen gui minhai, associated with the publishing house mighty current. immediately after he resurfaced, in an attempt to ensure his well-being and whereabouts the swedish government started working on his case. in a concerted effort the european union expressed its concerns about his case to hong kong and chinese authorities at high-level political meetings and through written statements. the head of the eu office to hong kong made numerous inquiries to the chief executive, secretary of justice and ministry of foreign affairs commissioner. additionally, the head of the eu delegation to china inquired with the ministry of foreign affairs in beijing. consequently, the eu has seen reports that sweden succeeded in securing consular access to mr gui, who remains in detention in china. the european union is not in a position to publicly comment on the consular contacts and the efforts of the swedish government. however, given certain aspects of this consular case, most notably mr gui’s disappearance from thailand and his publicly broadcast statement after resurfacing in china, the european union remains deeply concerned. the european union finds the practice of public broadcasting of so-called ‘confessions’ by chinese and eu citizens unacceptable. the european union believes that this case is a serious challenge to hong kong’s basic law and the ‘one country, two systems’ principle, as it raises serious concerns about the application of china’s criminal law to acts that are not punishable under hong kong law. gui minhai’s case is also part of a worrying trend that calls into question china’s respect for the rule of law and for its international human rights obligations, not least freedom of speech. the european union expects that mr gui will be released immediately after serving his traffic-related crime sentence. the european union continues to be concerned at the case of gui minhai and stands ready to work together with all actors and authorities concerned.
author. – mr president, it is 20 years since we last debated an urgent resolution on the situation in brazil so our consideration of the plight of brazil’s indigenous communities is long overdue. the brazilian constitution recognises the right of indigenous peoples to maintain their cultural traditions. the basis of our resolution today is to remind the current government of brazil to live up to its clear obligations as enshrined in that constitution. our motion is focused on the urgent situation facing the guarani—kaiowá in the state of mato grosso do sul. as is the case for all brazil’s indigenous people, the guarani—kaiowá have the right to their ancestral territory guaranteed in the constitution. but this right in theory is not adequately defended in practice. a full demarcation of their lands is still pending, although it is crucial to their survival. information from brazil’s ministry of health indicates that, over the past 14 years, at least 400 indigenous people have been assassinated defending their land rights. the interests of large landowners, agribusiness and mining corporations have always taken precedence in brazil, and armed groups attack and kill indigenous people who legitimately oppose those interests. far from defending their rights, the state offers such powerful interests impunity. brazil’s national indigenous foundation (funai) is tasked with defending indigenous rights but it has never been adequately resourced, and the current president, who holds his position as the result of a judicial coup, has reduced its funding to the lowest level in the past 10 years. there is wide support in this house for our motion, which strongly condemns the violence perpetrated against the indigenous communities, and calls on the brazilian authorities to investigate the murders of indigenous people. i would also strongly appeal to my colleagues in the brazilian parliament to re-examine constitutional amendment pec 215, as it threatens the legitimate land rights of indigenous people.
mr president, certainly jordan is a beleaguered state struggling in a difficult neighbourhood. i wonder though whether we shouldn’t look at the origins of a lot of the problems in that region. it is a hundred years since the sykes—picot agreement and the creation of states which were effectively synthetic. reality has imposed itself in iraq in the sense that there is now, to all intents and purposes, an autonomous kurdish entity, and something very similar is happening in syria. how long before the de jure recognition of the world follows the de facto lines on the ground? it is bizarre that we remain wedded to this idea that multi-ethnic states must be superior to what people democratically choose for themselves on the ground.
in writing. – this report calls on the eu to provide support to jordan to help it deal with the significant effects of the conflict in syria and iraq on its economy. jordan’s economy has suffered from losses of its natural export market and trade routes, lower levels of tourism and direct foreign investment, and has welcomed a huge number of refugees from the neighbouring conflicts. the eu has already granted jordan eur 180 million in macro-financial assistance (mfa). in february, the international community pledged to undertake a comprehensive support plan for jordan, and the eu pledged eur 2.39 billion, including a eur 200 million loan, for a second mfa operation under the eu-jordan compact. sinn féin fully supports providing assistance to the jordanian economy, especially given the burden it has taken in helping refugees, but the mfa is linked to imf loans and programmes that impose a neoliberal agenda and ‘structural reforms’ – in other words, austerity. it requires jordan to sign a memorandum of understanding to implement these imf neoliberal reforms. for this reason, and because the eu could easily have provided this assistance under other programmes, including the european neighbourhood initiative, we abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as i do not believe that british taxpayers’ money should be used to fund jordan through eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the granting of macro financial assistance to jordan from the international trade committee. successful policies and agreements on trade are in the interests of wales as of the rest of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i don’t believe that tax payer’s money should be used in this way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which concerns eu financial assistance to jordan. this support is vital given jordan is struggling with an unsustainable level of debt due to conflicts in its neighbourhood. meanwhile, the country is an important partner in addressing other consequences of the regional crises, welcoming around 1.3 million syrians. i therefore welcome that the commission will propose, in addition to this year’s eur 200 million, an extra macro-financial assistance operation of at least the same amount in 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which concerns eu financial assistance to jordan. this support is vital given jordan is struggling with an unsustainable level of debt due to conflicts in its neighbourhood. meanwhile, the country is an important partner in addressing other consequences of the regional crises, welcoming around 1.3 million syrians.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report providing finance support to jordan. this support is vital given jordan is struggling with an unsustainable level of debt due to conflicts in its neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, it is important that the eu provides the most effective assistance to jordan as soon as possible bearing in mind the role they are playing assisting in the refugee crisis and the need to help their ailing economy.
in writing. ‒ taxpayers’ money should not be used this way.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu spend money on foreign aid so i voted against this.
in writing. – i voted in favour of providing the most effective assistance to jordan as soon as possible, recognising the role they are playing assisting in the refugee crisis and the need to help their ailing economy. i believe that the eu is in a position to provide greater financial assistance to jordan than the eur 200 million proposed.
in writing. ‒ jordan has taken on the enormous task of hosting hundreds of thousands of refugees from syria and iraq. i welcome the fact that the eu is now issuing financial assistance to jordan to support these efforts. while we support this current move, the socialist and democrats believe that this financial assistance should be even greater than that which has been proposed, and we await the commission and council proposals regarding a substantial increase.
in writing. – we abstained in the vote on this report, the commission proposal and the legislative resolution. the report is on the commission’s proposal to review the institution for occupation retirement provision directive (iorps) to create ioprsii, which aims to improve the cross-border activities of the pension funds and ensure mobility for workers. the report amends the commission’s proposal to integrate new requirements on risk, transparency and governance. there are positive aspects to the report, including criticism of the level of control responsibilities assigned to member states; a call for a bigger role of the risk analysis on an investment decision; and calls for social and environmental risks to be included in the risk analysis carried out by pension funds. however, the underlying premise of both the commission proposal and this report is that pension funds are financial products that should be treated as market goods in the eu financial markets instead of treating them as people’s retirement savings that should be carefully protected. the key aim of the proposal is to enhance the mobility of these products in order to ensure a more mobile market for trade in these financial products. for these reasons we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it aims to consolidate and increase the powers of the european commission and impose new requirements on member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the hayes report on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. i was satisfied with the content of the report in terms of the situation in wales where we have had a number of instances of people losing the pension to which they have contributed for years. i was glad to see the obligation to include environmental and social assessments in the investment and risk management procedure, as well as increased transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the iorp ii directive because it is essential that we have a properly functioning pensions system in place – including state pensions, workplace pensions and private provision – to ensure that people are well looked-after in retirement. the directive ensures that pension schemes are well-run and well-regulated, and that ordinary members of pension schemes have vital information about how their money is being spent and what they can hope to receive after they retire. and pension schemes will now have to make sure they are investing for the long term, considering the social and environmental implications of their investments, which is a major step forward.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive because it ensures that pension schemes are well-run and well-regulated, and that ordinary members of pension schemes have vital information about how their money is being spent and what they can hope to receive after they retire. pension schemes will now have to make sure they are investing for the long term, considering the social and environmental implications of their investments, which is a major step forward.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the iorp ii directive because it is essential that we have a properly functioning pensions system in place – including state pensions, workplace pensions and private provision – to ensure that people are well looked-after in retirement. the directive ensures that pension schemes are well-run and well-regulated, and that ordinary members of pension schemes have vital information about how their money is being spent and what they can hope to receive after they retire. and pension schemes will now have to make sure they are investing for the long term, considering the social and environmental implications of their investments, which is a major step forward.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in this area so i voted against this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the iorp ii directive because it is essential that we have a properly functioning pensions system in place – including state pensions, workplace pensions and private provision – to ensure that people are well looked-after in retirement. the directive ensures that pension schemes are well-run and well-regulated, and that ordinary members of pension schemes have vital information about how their money is being spent and what they can hope to receive after they retire. and pension schemes will now have to make sure they are investing for the long term, considering the social and environmental implications of their investments, which is a major step forward.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the iorp ii directive because it is essential that we have a properly functioning pensions system in place – including state pensions, workplace pensions and private provision – to ensure that people are well looked-after in retirement. the directive ensures that pension schemes are well-run and well-regulated, and that ordinary members of pension schemes have vital information about how their money is being spent and what they can hope to receive after they retire. and pension schemes will also now have to make sure they are investing for the long term, considering the social and environmental implications of their investments, which is a major step forward.
in writing. – i voted against the joint motion for resolution on syria for a number of reasons. the resolution was particularly one-sided, rightly condemning assad and russia, but failing to address us, saudi and eu involvement in the conflict. its biggest fault comes from its calls for the eu to intervene directly and indirectly in syria. the resolution called for the eu to impose 'restrictive measures' on syria and for the eu to implement a no-fly zone over aleppo (which would put it in direct conflict with the russian and syrian air forces). it continued to call for a common eu strategy on syria. whilst aspects of the resolution are positive, as a whole we could not support it, as its proposals would not advance the cause of peace in syria. internal dialogue and lasting ceasefires, coupled with the disengagement of international military actors, including the usa, britain, france, russia, turkey and saudi arabia, are the only avenues to peace in syria.
in writing. ‒ whilst i commend aspects of this resolution in the fight against isis and aiding in improving the stability of syria, i believe a number of points in this resolution misunderstand the conflict and therefore i voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion on syria, which condemns the attacks and calls for several non-military measures to help stop the fighting, as well as for humanitarian assistance. i voted in favour because of the strong points in the motion, despite my opposition to a no-fly zone over aleppo city, which would in all likelihood mean further military escalation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which condemns the heavy aerial bombardment by the assad regime and russia on aleppo. the heinous attacks against civilian infrastructures, schools and hospitals cannot be tolerated. the eu needs to step up efforts to ensure accountability for crimes and call out russia and china for blocking progress on accountability in the security council by vetoing a mandate for the icc to investigate the crimes committed in syria. if the unsc is blocked we need to push proactively for alternative ways to break the deadlock. we need to voice support for the international commission of inquiry on syria to conduct a special inquiry into the attacks against civilians and hospitals in aleppo. we should also take the lead in the un general assembly to call for the creation of the post of special syria war crimes rapporteur and push for the establishment of a syrian war crimes court. atrocities cannot go unpunished.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which condemns the heavy aerial bombardment by the assad regime and russia on aleppo. the heinous attacks against civilian infrastructure, schools and hospitals cannot be tolerated.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. we are committed to seeing a long lasting and stable peace develop in syria. however, we do not support the development of eu foreign policy or expenditure. concerning 14/2 military action, including the enforcement of a no-fly zone, is a sovereign decision taken by the british government in compliance with international law and not something at the eu level.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, it is not for the eu to involve themselves in foreign conflicts.
in writing. – today i voted in favour of this resolution as the eu should not and cannot stay silent in the face of the ongoing massacre in syria. it needs to act collectively through its high representative and take the lead in the international efforts for a diplomatic solution to the syrian civil war.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it demands an immediate end to bombing and indiscriminate attacks on civilians; it underlines the need for all parties to pay maximum attention and to take all appropriate measures to protect civilians, irrespective of their ethnic identity or religious or confessional beliefs. it also calls on all parties to the conflict to take all appropriate steps to protect civilians, in compliance with international law, including by ceasing attacks directed against civilian facilities, such as medical centres, schools and water stations, by immediately demilitarising such facilities, by seeking to avoid establishing military positions in densely populated areas and by enabling the evacuation of the wounded and all civilians who wish to leave besieged areas; it underlines that the syrian regime has the primary responsibility for the protection of the syrian population.
in writing. ‒ i join my colleagues in condemning and deploring the grave human rights violations, war crimes and crimes against humanity currently taking place in syria. my heart goes out to all those affected by the conflict, and all those humanitarian aid activists working on the ground in impossible conditions. i support the call in this resolution for the international community to do more to bring the perpetrators of these war crimes to justice. we must find the most adequate available means to do so at international level. the eu and its member states must do more to accommodate and welcome syrian refugees fleeing from conflict. national governments must urgently implement eu decisions and legislation on refugees, including providing aid and support to those member states most affected. we must engage in a more compassionate and tolerant conversation about how to meet our moral obligations towards human beings that are fleeing war and suffering. we must also pay particular attention to the dramatic situations faced by child migrants and refugees, especially unaccompanied minors. children must be provided with adequate care and health (including mental health) services, and must be able to access education in their host countries.
in writing. – this jmr was balanced and included support from a diverse range of delegations and groups. it rightly criticised turkey for breaches of human rights and which is very critical of the erdoğan regime’s post-coup purge and which calls on the commission and member states to freeze the accession negotiations until certain conditions are met.
in writing. ‒ whilst this resolution is critical of turkey in a number of places it also calls to ‘keep turkey anchored to the eu’. i believe this resolution does not go far enough in halting turkish accession therefore i voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which calls for the freezing of accession negotiations with turkey. it was passed with a substantial majority, indicating the strength of feeling on this issue. the prospect of turkey joining the eu was used as a scare tactic in the referendum campaign in wales. this resolution shows clearly that the european parliament will not allow any country that allows violations of human rights to continue negotiations. communication channels remain open but progress will not be made on eu membership until there is progress in turkey in the interests of its people.
in writing. ‒ eu-turkey relations have become increasingly strained since the attempted coup. the biggest source of tension is the crackdown in the aftermath of the coup, including the persecution of journalists and the possible reintroduction of the death penalty. the viability of the migration deal has been called into question with erdoğan becoming increasingly frustrated at the lack of progress towards eu accession. he has issued an ultimatum to the eu on this issue and suggested that turkey may give up its ambitions to become an eu member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution urging the council and the european commission to temporarily freeze accession negotiations with turkey. we can no longer stay silent on the disproportionate repression measures taken by erdoğan in the wake of the recent coup attempt. the freeze should be maintained as long as the turkish authorities continue to neglect and undermine democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this this resolution urging the council and the european commission to temporarily freeze accession negotiations with turkey. we cannot continue relations as normal with turkey all the while that erdoğan continues to repress human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. we support the elements of the report criticising the crackdown by erdoğan’s government following the attempted coup under state of emergency laws. the report however does not go far enough. it only calls for a temporary freeze of accession negotiations. we want a permanent end to talks on turkey joining the eu and an end to all pre-accession payments.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this as the report does not go far enough into saying that turkey should never join the eu.
in writing. – today i voted in favour of the resolution on turkey which calls on the eu to freeze accession talks with turkey in response to ankara’s recent crackdown on political opposition and freedom of press, until the turkish government returns to the path of respect for the rule of law and human rights. the eu needs to send a strong signal to the turkish government that what is going on there is not acceptable. this is necessary for the eu to retain a credible foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ i continue to express my strong concern for the grave human rights violations going on in turkey, which i have witnessed first-hand, especially in the kurdish regions. the mass arrests and crack down on media outlets and journalists must stop. i therefore welcome the freezing of eu-turkey accession talks, a step which must be followed by harsher and more determined measures, unless the turkish government restores full democracy and upholds human rights and the rule of law. turkish authorities must also stop committing atrocities in the kurdish regions, and must allow the world’s media to access the area in order for the true situation to be reported on. i reiterate my call that all imprisoned hdp mps must be released immediately.
in writing. – the accession to the convention is an important step forward and can be built upon to go further, but there is more support needed from member states and the parliament. the resolution highlights the request for a european framework directive against violence against women, which is very important. it is hoped that this resolution will implore member states who have not ratified the convention to do so as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ whilst i fully support the aims of the convention i do not believe i should legitimise the european union in signing international conventions. the united kingdom is well on the way to ratifying this convention as a member state. i voted to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of the first ecr resolution and abstained on the second compromise resolution. both were non-legislative and non-binding. the istanbul convention is a (non-eu) international convention that will create some legally binding and non-legislative measures which countries who ratify will have to bring in to national law. the uk is in the process of ratifying the convention in its own right. ukip voted in favour of the first ecr resolution as the wording was much better than the compromise resolution because it stressed: ‘that it is the sovereign right of a member state to ratify and implement the convention and its provisions’. ukip abstained on the second compromise resolution because although on the one hand it called on the eu to sign up to convention in its own right (ukip cannot legitimise the eu signing up to international agreements in its own right) – on the other hand we don’t want to appear opposed to fighting violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu joining the istanbul convention to combat violence against women and girls and back the calls for the council to do so. the uk is one of fourteen member states that have signed but not ratified the convention and i have called on the national assembly for wales to do so to put pressure on the uk government to keep its promise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the first ecr resolution and abstained on the second compromise resolution. the uk is in the process of ratifying the convention in its own right. i voted in favour of the first ecr resolution as the wording was much better than the compromise resolution because it stressed: ‘that it is the sovereign right of a member state to ratify and implement the convention and its provisions’. i abstained on the second compromise resolution because it called on the eu to sign up to convention in its own right (i cannot legitimise the eu signing up to international agreements in its own right).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the eu to step up its actions on combating violence against women through the adoption of eu legislation to strengthen our response and classify violence against women as a particularly serious crime within the eu treaties. it is simply unacceptable that a third of all women in europe have suffered physical or sexual violence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as currently a third of all women in europe have suffered physical or sexual violence. this resolution calls on the eu to step up its actions on combating violence against women through the adoption of eu legislation to strengthen our response and classify violence against women as a particularly serious crime within the eu treaties.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of the first ecr resolution and abstained on the second compromise resolution. both were non-legislative and non-binding. the istanbul convention is a (non-eu) international convention that will create some legally binding and non-legislative measures which countries who ratify will have to bring in to national law. the uk is in the process of ratifying the convention in its own right. ukip voted in favour of the first ecr resolution as the wording was much better than the compromise resolution because it stressed: ‘that it is the sovereign right of a member state to ratify and implement the convention and its provisions’. ukip abstained on the second compromise resolution because although on the one hand it called on the eu to sign up to convention in its own right (ukip cannot legitimise the eu signing up to international agreements in its own right) – on the other hand we don’t want to appear opposed to fighting violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it emphasises that the eu accession will guarantee a coherent european legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women and gender-based violence and to protect the victims of violence. it also stresses that it will provide greater coherence and efficiency in the eu’s internal and external policies, will ensure better monitoring, interpretation and implementation of eu laws, programmes and funds relevant to the convention, as well as more adequate and better collection of comparable desegregated data on violence against women and gender-based violence at eu level, and will reinforce the eu’s accountability at international level.
in writing. ‒ as this resolution says, eu accession will guarantee a coherent european legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women and gender-based violence and to protect the victims of violence. i welcome the commission’s proposal for eu accession to the istanbul convention. the council and the commission must speed up the process, sign and ratify the convention without reservations. member states who have not ratified it yet, including the uk, must do so, and the convention must be implemented at national and european levels. gender—based violence must be tackled holistically, from the perspective of it being a human rights violation, a safety and security risk, a criminal issue, as well as a health, and culture and education issue. these issues must all be tackled in a concerted effort to eliminate the violence that so many women and lgbti people face daily.
in writing. – this report approves the 2015 report of activities presented by the european ombudsman and congratulates her. it welcomes the continued efforts of the european ombudsman to increase transparency and underlines eight of the strategic inquiries opened by the european ombudsman on major issues, such as ttip transparency, whistleblowing, the european citizens’ initiative, fundamental rights in the eu’s cohesion policy and her complaint on frontex forced returns. it also focuses on the opening of six strategic initiatives (pursuit of important topics without an inquiry), among which are ecb transparency, post-term-of-office activities of former commissioners, and the asylum, migration, and integration fund). therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ whilst i am happy for eu bodies to criticise eu institutions, the ombudsman is still part of the european union mechanism, therefore i voted to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this resolution because we feel that the ombudsman is holding the institutions to account on transparency but is still not going far enough to ensure that all aspects of the eu are transparent and accountable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. the report makes some strong points on the lack of transparency in some areas of the eu’s activities. it calls for a directive on the protection of whistleblowers, and also a reformed code of conduct for commissioners. there has been interest in wales in the position of ombudsperson and i hope that we can build on the eu example.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. the report calls for increased transparency in ttip negotiations and for the ombudsman to take action and examine. while i wish for there to be greater transparency i also wish that there wasn't an eu commission, ecb or other eu institutions that require examination!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015, given that ombudsman emily o'reilly has done important work on increasing transparency in the context of ttip negotiations, the work of the ecb, eu decision-making, whistleblowing rules and lobbying transparency. she has also been vital in addressing issues around revolving doors and conflict of interests. i moreover welcome that ms o'reilly investigated respect for fundamental rights, in particular on the role of frontex in forced returns.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as labour meps support the work and activities of the european ombudsman, who has done essential work in increasing transparency in the context of ttip negotiations, the work of the ecb, eu decision-making, whistleblowing rules and lobbying transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which highlights the key work of the ombudsman, who plays an important role in upholding democracy and fundamental rights across the eu. it is important that more efforts are made to strengthen democracy as well as accountability.
in writing. ‒ ukip chose to abstain on this resolution because we feel that the ombudsman is holding the institutions to account on transparency but is still not going far enough to ensure that all aspects of the eu are transparent and accountable.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this. whilst i do not agree that the eu should exist, at least the ombudsman is trying to keep an eye on it.
in writing. ‒ the eu ombudsman does important work to guarantee the eu carries out its work to a high standard. i welcome the ombudsman’s effort to promote greater transparency in eu decision-making, and wholeheartedly support her recent work in bringing about the investigation of manuel barroso for conflict of interests regarding his goldman sachs appointment.
in writing. – while there were some positive aspects in this report, we voted against overall due to its infringements on national sovereignty in relation to tax, and its promotion of a regressive tax (vat). the report supports a further transfer of powers on vat to the commission by calling for a single common eu vat area. while we need to tackle vat fraud across the eu, we also need to ensure decisions about vat rates and exemptions are in the hands of locally accountable governments. for example, the irish government claims that eu rules don’t allow a lower rate on life-saving defibrillators. vat, like all indirect taxes, has a regressive effect on distribution, and the poor lose the largest portion of their income. we should ensure our vat systems include both luxury rates and reduced rates on essential items, and this report calls for a reduction in the items of vat that can receive an exception or reduced rate, which we are opposed to.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it calls for further eu-wide cooperation on vat and will lead to further powers being handed to the eu commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the vat report given it is a crucial instrument to address the loss of eur 170 billion through the so-called ‘vat gap’ each year. i welcome that the report provides for a review of the goods and services eligible for reduced rates, allowing the uk government to bring an end to the sanitary tax and other unfair taxes. it moreover is important to reinforce help for small and micro-businesses in the uk by calling for a reintroduction of a vat threshold.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the vat report as it will help tackle the eur 170 million lost through the so-called vat gap each year. it also provides for a review of the goods and services eligible for reduced rates, allowing the uk government to bring an end to the sanitary tax and other unfair taxes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the vat report as it will help tackle the eur 170 billion lost through the so-called ‘vat gap’ each year. the report also provides for a review of the goods and services eligible for reduced rates, allowing the uk government to bring an end to the sanitary tax and other unfair taxes. the report also reinforces help for small and micro-businesses in the uk by calling for a reintroduction of a vat threshold.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this due to the fact that it calls for a harmonised tax scheme.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the vat report as it will help tackle the eur 170 billion lost through the so-called ‘vat gap’ each year. the report also provides for a review of the goods and services eligible for reduced rates, allowing the uk government to bring an end to the sanitary tax and other unfair taxes. the report also reinforces help for small and micro-businesses in the uk by calling for a reintroduction of a vat threshold.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the vat report as it will help tackle the eur 170 billion lost through the so-called ‘vat gap’ each year. the report also provides for a review of the goods and services eligible for reduced rates, allowing the uk government to bring an end to the sanitary tax and other unfair taxes. the report also reinforces help for small and micro-businesses in the uk by calling for a reintroduction of a vat threshold.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the vat report as it will help tackle the eur 170 billion lost through the so-called ‘vat gap’ each year. the report also provides for a review of the goods and services eligible for reduced rates, allowing the uk government to bring an end to the sanitary tax and other unfair taxes. the report also reinforces help for small and micro-businesses in the uk by calling for a reintroduction of a vat threshold.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the vat report as it will help tackle the eur 170 billion lost through the so-called ‘vat gap’ each year. the report also provides for a review of the goods and services eligible for reduced rates, allowing the uk government to bring an end to the sanitary tax and other unfair taxes. the report also reinforces help for small and micro-businesses in the uk by calling for a reintroduction of a vat threshold. fair taxation is a cornerstone of a progressive society as tax income is required to help fund state spending, ensuring that disadvantaged and vulnerable people can receive a basic level of support and that universal services such as the nhs remain free at the point of delivery.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report on the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, which has become one of the largest and most profitable forms of cross-border crime at the same time as global biodiversity is being severely threatened. the eu is unfortunately a significant destination market for illegally—traded wildlife.
in writing. ‒ whilst i fully support the aims of this resolution, i fully believe these issues should be decided at a member state level. i therefore voted to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ today ukip abstained on the non-legislative report on wildlife trafficking. we in ukip are aware that wildlife trafficking poses a serious and growing threat. however, we believe that national parliaments, not the unelected eu commission, should decide with regard to updating and improving animal welfare
in writing. ‒ i welcome calls for tighter controls on the international trade in wildlife, wildlife products and wildlife trafficking; and to set standards applying to international trade in hunting trophies of species. the commission’s action plan will strengthen the eu’s role in the global fight against wildlife trafficking and promote better coordination across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on an eu action plan against wildlife trafficking. i know it is an issue about which my constituents in wales feel very strongly because they have contacted me to ask for my support. wildlife crime is extremely profitable globally, which is why it is so vital that the eu takes a lead in ending it. i hope that all member states, and particularly the uk, will now follow this example, and that the welsh government will play its part.
in writing. ‒ i am against the creation of new eu legislation on wildlife trafficking. however, i do agree with this wildlife tracking plan, if implemented at national level. this is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ wildlife trafficking is one of the major forms of organised crime, and the eu is one of the main markets. this has a detrimental impact on wildlife. every year, there is an 8% decline in the elephant population through poaching. the picture for other iconic species is similarly gloomy. to stop these harmful practices, i voted in favour of an immediate eu ban on the trade of ivory and rhinoceros horn, and called for proper sanctions. i also supported a ban on wildlife which has been illegally harvested or traded in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this action plan as wildlife trafficking represents a serious and endemic form of organised crime, and the eu is one of the main markets. i voted in favour of an immediate eu ban on the trade of ivory and rhinoceros horn, and called for proper sanctions. i also supported a ban on wildlife which has been illegally harvested or traded in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which states that wildlife crime needs to be recognised as a major international issue, with profound implications for the environment, governance, local economies, and so on. it requires urgent attention in terms of political and financial support for the countries affected by it, as well as a more responsible approach to global trade.
in writing. ‒ today ukip abstained on the non-legislative report on wildlife trafficking. we in ukip are aware that wildlife trafficking poses a serious and growing threat. however, we believe that national parliaments, not the unelected eu commission, should decide with regard to updating and improving animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this issue, whilst i care deeply for the protection of animals. i also whole heartily believe that we should ban the illegal ivory trade. however, i cannot support the eu implementing this.
in writing. – today i voted in favour of the report on the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking. it is fully in line with labour's initiatives in the field of wildlife protection and conservation as well as the tackling of wildlife crime. wildlife crime needs to be recognised as a major international issue, with profound implications on the environment, governance, local economies, and so on.
in writing. ‒ with my labour colleagues, i voted in favour of this report as it remains fully in line with our initiatives in the field of wildlife protection and conservation as well as the tackling of wildlife crime. wildlife crime needs to be recognised as a major international issue, with profound implications on the environment, governance, local economies, and so on. it requires urgent attention in terms of political and financial support for the countries affected by it, as well as a more responsible approach to global trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report together with fellow labour meps as it is fully in line with labour's initiatives in the field of wildlife protection and conservation (at home and abroad) as well as the tackling of wildlife crime. wildlife crime must be recognised as a major international issue, with profound implications for the environment, bio-diversity, governance, sustainable tourism, local economies, and so on. it requires urgent attention in terms of political and financial support for affected countries, as well as a more responsible approach to global trade. i would like to acknowledge the excellent work undertaken by civil society in raising awareness of the issue and helping to build public and political support. in line with my parliamentary work on this issue i have also taken personal action by sponsoring one of the threatened species, namely a young male black rhino called lankieu.
in writing. – while this voting list offered many new opportunities for small transport businesses, it made no differentiation between a transport company and those transport sharing services operating in the collaborative economy. there were elements of the file that were in essence the thin end of the wedge to allowing for recognition of uber, etc. more so, it calls for a single european transport area, to which we are opposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as the united kingdom is already investing heavily in small transport and the over-regulation that this resolution talks about is caused by the eu itself.
in writing. ‒ the uk is already investing in the future of small transport businesses. in 2013, uk competitiveness recovered in comparison to the rest of the eu and the world. the report calls for member states to put an end to over-regulation. however we know through the eu’s refit programme that they admit to over—regulation themselves.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this item because, whilst the report makes many admirable conclusions and i welcomed the attack on protectionist barriers in transport, i could not support the claims and implications of ‘social dumping’ also contained in the report. the report claims new business models such as uber can create distortions in terms of pay and social security systems, thereby leading to ‘social dumping’ and then goes on to suggest that a coordinated multi-modal european regulatory framework is the best way these new businesses have of outcompeting established firms in the market.
in writing. ‒ the uk is already investing in the future of small transport businesses. in 2013 the uk competitiveness recovered in comparison to the rest of the eu and the world. this report called for eu member states to put an end to over-regulation, however, we know through the eu’s refit programme that they admit to over-regulation themselves: so who is to blame here? i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report which underlines the necessity to support transport smes at european level. investing in these businesses and deploying synergies between different member states is vital for developing the single european transport area in a manner that benefits passengers. with more detailed knowledge of the local market, greater proximity to the customer and in many cases agility and ability to innovate, small businesses are instrumental in improving transport for each individual passenger.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which underlines the necessity to support transport smes at european level. european member states will benefit hugely from improving the european transport area. this will be of great benefit to small businesses and to passengers.
in writing. ‒ small transport businesses are particularly hard to evaluate because of their varied profiles depending on the mode of transport, country, type of service provided and the competition structure of the market in which they operate. thanks to their more detailed knowledge of the local market, greater proximity to the customer and in many cases agility and ability to innovate, small businesses can improve transport for each individual passenger. this report underlines the necessity of support for smes at european level, in order to face the considerable challenges they are constantly confronting. investing in their development and deploying synergies between different member states would assist in building the single european transport area for the benefit of passengers.
in writing. ‒ the uk is already investing in the future of small transport businesses. in 2013 the uk competitiveness recovered in comparison to the rest of the eu and the world. the report calls for member states to put an end to over-regulation, however we know through the eu’s refit programme that they admit to over regulation themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it calls for the member states to deregulate transport which i find hypocritical. also it calls on the commission to legislate.
in writing. – today i voted in favour of this report. small transport businesses are particularly hard to evaluate because of their varied profiles depending on the mode of transport, country, type of service provided and the competition structure of the market in which they operate. thanks to their more detailed knowledge of the local market, greater proximity to the customer and in many cases agility and ability to innovate, small businesses can improve transport for each individual passenger. this report underlines the necessity of support for smes at european level, in order to face the considerable challenges they are constantly confronting. investing in their development and deploying synergies between different member states would assist in building the single european transport area for the benefit of passengers.
in writing. ‒ small transport businesses are particularly hard to evaluate because of their varied profiles depending on the mode of transport, country, type of service provided and the competition structure of the market in which they operate. thanks to their more detailed knowledge of the local market, greater proximity to the customer and in many cases agility and ability to innovate, small businesses can improve transport for each individual passenger. this report underlines the necessity of support for smes at european level, in order to face the considerable challenges they are constantly confronting. investing in their development and deploying synergies between different member states would assist in building the single european transport area for the benefit of passengers.
in writing. – the motion for a resolution on belarus was not critical enough of the human rights breaches that happen in that country and it also tried to criticise other countries adjacent to belarus for the issues in that country. it was not as balanced as it should have been and in places it was unduly lenient towards the last remaining dictatorship in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted to abstain on this resolution because i do not believe that the european union should be getting involved in the matters of other member states.
in writing. ‒ there have been two major developments in belarus. first, there has been the resumption of death sentences carried out after a two-year pause. the eu considers the death penalty a major sticking point in diplomatic and economic relations. it had recently unfrozen the assets of 150 major figures in belarus following this pause and the release of some political prisoners. the second concerns the planned development of a nuclear plant near the border with lithuania. there have been questions raised over the planning processes’ compliance with international safety standards and other requirements of the belarusian government through its membership of the international atomic energy agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on belarus, which expresses grave concern about the shortcomings observed by independent international observers during the 2015 presidential and 2016 parliamentary elections as well as harassment of media and journalists. belarusian authorities need to implement measures outlined in the report to improve respect of fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and democracy as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on belarus which expresses grave concern about the current situation there, including the harassment of media and journalists.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. whilst we are concerned about the state of democracy in belarus, we cannot support the development of eu foreign policy or the potential for eu action.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this as i do not wish the eu to get involved in foreign affairs.
in writing. ‒ together with my colleagues, i welcome the eu’s action to promote democracy and the rule of law in belarus. i join the call for all political prisoners in the country to be immediately released, and for legitimate political opposition and civil society to be allowed to operate freely. i echo my colleagues’ concerns about the construction of the belarusian nuclear power plant in ostrovets, and support international action to address the problem. i also welcome the ongoing work of nuclear transparency watch, which provides an important platform for civil society scrutiny of the nuclear industry.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, can i also thank the commissioner and, as was said, she will be sorely missed. i would also like to thank the slovak presidency for the way they have conducted the negotiations, and of course our two rapporteurs, who i think have done a fantastic job. indeed, i would say this is probably one of the best budget agreements we have had for a number of years, and of course the headlines will be the extra eur 200 million for heading 1a, research and development money, which is vital if we are to encourage jobs and growth in the european union, and secondly, the eur 500 million for the youth employment initiative. i think the youth employment initiative has got off to a slow start in many states, but i also believe that youth unemployment is still one of the great scandals of our time. therefore it is absolutely vital we continue to put money into the youth employment initiative to try and tackle the scourge of youth unemployment. hopefully colleagues will welcome that. can i say on the 500 million and the written declaration from the council, i think it is absolutely vital that they do allow the commission to come forward with an amending budget next year. too often in the past we have had written declarations, but when the time comes for the amended budget, the council has backtracked and blocked it, so for the credibility of the european union it is absolutely vital that the council allows that to go ahead. finally, can i say something on the various flexibility instruments – the flexibility instrument itself, the global margin and the contingency margin. used in the right way, these flexibility instruments allow us to adapt to changing priorities and problems in the european union and the eu’s budget, and hopefully we can learn lessons from that in the review of the mff, and in the next mff we must build in flexibility into a budget to tackle those new issues as they arise.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, when we come to this point in the year, i sometimes wonder why we don’t just replay a recording of last year’s budget debates rather than repeat the entire performance. because it is the same thing that happens over and over again. as it’s christmas, let’s compare this to an annual pantomime. the committee on budgets, the commission, the parliament – well we all vote, don’t we, for more eu, more spending, more taxpayers’ money being thrown at this project? then along comes ukip and our colleagues in the efdd – the five star movement and others – and we suggest saving the taxpayer billions of euros. we show how it can be done, we show costs that can be cut and we show victimless cuts, saving money for ordinary people. well, that makes us the pantomime villain. so you lot all boo. oh yes you do. and labour and conservatives vote against whatever we come up with, and that sometimes shows how much they seem to care about saving money for ordinary people. and then the council comes and proposes a smaller budget increase, and we have the ‘will they, won’t they?’ moment where the audience wonders if a compromise can be reached. so we go into the early hours of the morning almost every year, wondering whether they can find a new trick to find more taxpayers’ money without actually breaching the budget ceilings. and, after nail—biting tension, the audience on the edge of their seats, a compromise is always reached, the day is saved and everybody lives happily ever after – everybody, of course, except the general public, who have to pay for all of it despite, in the uk’s case, having voted for brexit. never mind a 3.3% backdated pay increase for eu commission officials that went through the committee on budgets last time, never mind draft amending budget no 5, which means that the uk will have to fire off another eur 700 million cheque off to brussels, and never mind the repeated court of auditors reports. you know what? i sometimes don’t know whether this is a pantomime or a kafkaesque farce. well, the british people voted for brexit and we’re going to write the last chapter, we’re going to play the final act and we’re going to lower the curtain on this tragedy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well that is exactly what we want to do. of course we want to leave the european union, but right at this moment we’re still here, and we’re still paying into that budget. everything that we vote for, for 2017, is money that the united kingdom, as things stand at the moment, will have to pay into that budget, so of course i care about the british taxpayer having to pay into this place.
mr president, this budget responds to the migration, security and agricultural crises in a manner that is both timely and appropriate, and that is welcome, but i wish to express one reservation. whilst i share my colleagues’ concerns about youth unemployment, i am not convinced of the value of the youth employment initiative. in common with the views of the european court of auditors, i too have seen plenty of similar schemes which actually deliver very little by way of value for money. surely the two things that young people need most is, firstly, a quality education and training system, and, secondly, a strong, growing economy that creates job opportunities for all. finally, may i finish with a word to vice-president georgieva. commissioner, you have achieved a huge amount. through your formidable skills you have transformed the budget, and you leave behind you a legacy which is huge and valuable. for that, we offer you our thanks, and we wish you well in your new job at the world bank.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, in the words of our rapporteur christofer fjellner’s draft report, this agreement with ghana is incomplete and outdated. we are only compelled to consider it because the commission has failed to deliver a sustainable strategy for west africa. to build a real economic partnership with ghana and the rest of west africa, we need far more than traditional trade liberalisation and old-fashioned power politics. the content of this agreement is poor, the methods employed to conclude it are far worse. we have a duty to be coherent with our global sustainable development goals, and this agreement is not about value-based trade. on the contrary, it undermines our values by not even mentioning them in the core of the agreement. finally, there are alternatives available to ensure market access for ghanaian exporters, and no reason for us to rush through an interim solution, which could become very quickly a permanent bad deal for the eu and ghana. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i quoted directly from the draft report which was tabled in the committee on international trade (inta). we are talking about the eu-ghana interim economic partnership agreement and not about the regional economic partnership agreement, and those were your words in relation to the interim economic partnership agreement.
madam president, while i of course acknowledge that the interim epa does not fully meet my group’s requirements for a free trade agreement – especially given the absence of a trade and sustainable development chapter – as we have just heard, we should remind ourselves that we are talking about ghana: a vibrant, constitutional democracy, committed to implementing the un sustainable development goals, sadly almost an exception in africa. plus, this is only an interim epa which will be applied until the regional one, ecowas, comes into force. this is an agreement that the ghanaian government and parliament strongly want, as they believe it is good for their people. in fact, it was ratified unanimously by the 275 ghanaian mps, so who are we to say this is not good for them? the current preferential trade regime mar is not wto-compatible and will cease to apply sooner or later. ghana needs a more stable framework to attract and maintain foreign investment. ghana does not want to keep the uncertain mar preferences, does not want to apply for the less-favourable gsp+; they want this agreement, and we should respect their choice. i want to stand by the ghanaian people, and therefore i will vote for this agreement.
on behalf of the efdd group. – establishing tough data protection safeguards is something i’m sure we can all get behind. it’s only fair that, when data is shared between nations for the purpose of prevention, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, these safeguards must be in place. they help to ensure that there is a fair data retention period, that there are fair rules on the use of sensitive information, and that there is accountability when data is lost or stolen. the latter, perhaps, is the most important, given the increased global security threat. attached to this vote are two resolutions from the alde and gue groups, who seek to postpone the signing of this agreement until the ecj is given its opinion. it probably goes without saying that ukip reject the very existence of the ecj, and that is putting it quite mildly. this is a real problem, that this agreement does not appear, at the moment, to be signed by the uk government; we shall be watching it closely to see whether prime minister may actually does bring us into this, against all of things she said about getting us cleared of the ecj, and we will absolutely be monitoring how all the ukip uk meps vote on these amendments regarding sending disagreements to the ecj. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card question. – i just wonder if mr finch would confirm that he feels this whole topic would be far better dealt with by an independent britain post—brexit, and that we shouldn’t have to worry ourselves with the activities of the ecj.
blue-card answer. – well, indeed, but the fact is that it will be in two to two and a half years’ time that the uk should enforce its own data protection deals. the ecj is not fit for purpose, and i will be extremely distressed if our present prime minister actually signs us into these. we do have an opt-out at present, and we will be watching extremely closely.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we all know niemöller’s poem: that first they came for the communists, the socialists and the jews, and how he lamented that he had not spoken out for them until there was no one left to speak out for him. this was europe 65 years ago, but now we see that we must speak out again. it’s happening to those others, whoever they are. in june, the uk had the most divisive referendum campaigns. our equality and human rights commission said that the referendum campaign had, and i quote, ‘legitimised hate’. during the campaign, a young mp doing her job was shot and stabbed to death by a man consumed with hate, and who, shockingly, on his conviction was supported by 60,000 tweets. two months after the eu referendum, mr arkadiusz jóźwik, a polish national, was assaulted and killed by six teenagers in what was believed to be a hate crime. in the weeks following the brexit result, reported hate crime rose by 58% compared to the year before, but it’s not just in the uk. politicians and leaders on both sides of the atlantic and across the union are again peddling hate and fear. it gives permission to others, who feed on this bile and who are deranged enough to think that it’s acceptable. many eu citizens living in the uk are very scared, as are those seeking refuge or who have migrated elsewhere in the eu. what has the uk government’s response been? to ask companies to report to them their foreign-born employees. what message is this sending? this is not the britain i know. this is not the europe that i know. the britain i know is outward—looking, decent and tolerant. the britain i know stands up for everyone, no matter what their skin colour, what their language, who they love or who they worship. and it was this ethos that founded the european union as europe recovered from the horrors that inspired niemöller’s poem. but in this sea of rising intolerance, there are glimmers of hope. after the death of mr jóźwik, the polish centre in london was deluged with flowers and messages of sympathy. brexit or no brexit, racist, homophobic and hateful speech must be publicly and forcibly condemned by us all, and i, as a liberal democrat, will continue to do just that.
mr president, hate crime is unacceptable and each day we see an increase in these despicable actions right across the eu. in my constituency of northern ireland some great work is being done to combat the causes and recently i was contacted by a local skills sme, which works with employers, developing recruitment models that are fairer to migrant workers. in many cases workers may have the professional skills and experience but the qualifications they have achieved elsewhere are not recognised. this often leads them to become socially and economically isolated. it is vital that every citizen has the capacity to make their own contribution and this is critical to changing the unwanted perceptions in society. i am saddened today to hear many in this chamber refer to the result of the british referendum as a victory for racism or xenophobia. i, like the majority of people in the united kingdom, was heartbroken by the death of jo cox. the british people are a welcoming people, our communities are some of the most diverse across the continent. crimes like this are abhorrent to the vast and overwhelming majority of our people. in choosing brexit we simply rededicated our commitment to be free from the unnecessary disorder of brussels.
mr president, it is very clear from this debate that we are acknowledging that we are going through an unprecedented period in our history. members in this chamber will remember the very optimistic time in which the framework decision on racism was created and the race equality directive happened; it was a different time in europe. but i want to say to those colleagues who mention brussels in the negative way that they do, that this is a union of values. it is a union of values for those who are rejecting it and for those who stay, and that binds us together in one very important way. it means that it is very legitimate for us to legislate, to regulate, to say that it is important for all of our citizens – not minorities, by the way; those who are old, disabled, of a different sexual orientation, those who are a different colour, race – these are millions of our european citizens. they deserve protection and what we do not see is enough implementation by our member states. these values still exist today in these difficult times, and i would say that it increases our value and increases our cohesion here in the european union if we are determined to make this happen. this is not a time for us to retreat on these values. it is a time to do, as ms bearder said, what needs to be done when we see hatred on our streets. this is not anecdotal. we know, because of the legislation we have implemented, that we are calculating and seeing, because our police forces tell us what is happening on our streets. this is a time to go forward, but i would say, finally, to the council: ensure that this horizontal anti-discrimination directive happens so that millions of our citizens can be protected, in line with the values of this european union.
mr president, i want to start by echoing the words of catherine bearder and also welcoming what the commission has said, but i would also point out to some of our colleagues that culture is not fossilised and it changes. i am sure we are very grateful that we are not living in the middle ages at this moment. i would also join those who have asked the commission, and the council as well, to move forward on completing the horizontal anti-discrimination directives and to consider updating the framework decision against racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism, to cover all groups in line with the victims of crime directive. in terms of other action that we can take, i think it is important that we strengthen the role of the equality bodies in each of our member states. my own member state has seen its budget slashed down by about two-thirds over the last six years. the valuable work that can be done at the grassroots level is cut away because our equality bodies are not fully independent and cannot carry out their role adequately.
mr president, violence should never be tolerated, but let’s get it into perspective. sir julian, you think hate crimes are under-reported. i will address that. catherine bearder cites misleading and anonymous statistics. most of the so-called hate crime is reported anonymously and not subject to independent verification, including the police’s site true vision. other sites have been set up on social media. there are many. anyone can log on and push up statistics, such as the hate-filled left for their own political agenda, as seen in this place. all can be anonymous and not subject to verification. it is very subjective. the attacks on a polish cultural centre in the uk were against a polish pro-brexit group. get it into perspective. other attacks were registered against goths, punks and some misogyny. nothing to do with post-referendum britain, so don’t label it as such. brexit and the election of trump in the us demonstrate across the western world that people are tired of your political corrective multicultural lectures of the establishment. we’ve brexited and we can get out of this place and stop listening to the hate-filled left. and you, bearder.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, madam high representative, with its abundance of natural resources and strategic location at the heart of africa, it’s a tragedy that the drc is associated with little but corrupt governance, conflict and instability. having been subjected to 32 years of mobutu’s tyranny, in which he robbed the country of vast amounts of money, imposed an authoritarian regime and saw the country fall into a state of near—lawlessness, bequeathing to the world the term ‘kleptocracy’ for his government, we now find ourselves in 2016 faced again with the prospect of a president that refuses to be bound by constitutional term limits and stand down, which is of course is a great alarm to the european union. having served two terms after succeeding to the presidency at the young age of 29, kabila jr. is now seeking to become a mobutu ii. in the myriad of hotspots around the world, it’s tempting for some to dismiss the current constitutional crisis in kinshasa as a problem that the european union and member states can ill afford to spend much time on. whilst it’s right that we allow the african union to take a lead on this and support the mediation of the former prime minister of togo, edem kodjo, we should also remind ourselves of the deep divisions that exist within the democratic republic of congo and the potential for bloody conflict that this volatile situation could lead to if left unresolved.
mr president, this year has proved to be a massive test for the viability of democracy in the democratic republic of congo (drc). it is a crying shame that a land of such beauty, diversity and untapped wealth has become synonymous with the idea of a failed state. it is an even greater shame that the actions of one man could possibly plunge this country back into civil war. president kabila must respect the principles set out in the congolese constitution and allow proper democratic elections to take place once his mandate is up. i was heartened by last week’s un security council reports on their visits to the drc and angola. it would appear, in particular, that their visit to the troubled eastern region has brought some political stability, and the welcome intervention of angola in its dual role of security council member and chair of the international conference on the great lakes region is to be warmly welcomed. of course, sanctions against individuals implicated in the atrocities is a necessary tool, as is the financial support that the international community provides to the drc, but i strongly hope that the visit by the security council will encourage the kabila administration to honour its democratic obligations and provide a peaceful and inclusive transition.
president of the republic of tunisia. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your invitation. it is an honour for my country and a privilege for me to address the members of parliament directly and, through them, the states and peoples they represent. i would therefore like to convey to europe, to the european union, and through you, ladies and gentlemen, to your states and peoples, a message of friendship, solidarity and trust from tunisia. tunisia is standing before you today with a new face because our people have fought to bring about a democratic process in our country. you know that we now have a modern constitution, a constitution for a civil state, without religious or dogmatic reference. however, we also have a muslim majority, and we believe that islam, well known, well practiced, is not incompatible with democracy. it is even a key element in our country's commitment to this path. so we have a constitution, a president elected by universal suffrage, we have a pluriform parliament, with 16 parties, for the first time in our history for 60 years, and we have a government that is supported by a very large majority in our parliament, namely 168 votes out of 217, which is unprecedented. so from this point of view, tunisia is presenting itself with a new face and with new prospects, but in any case we must work even harder for the cohesion of our people, precisely to succeed in overcoming the challenges that lie ahead of us: the challenge of terrorism, that of underdevelopment, of representation abroad. we are optimistic, reasonably optimistic, and we will get down to it. i would therefore like to take this happy opportunity to pay sincere tribute to the european parliament for its support and solidarity with tunisia, from the first days after the historic turning point of our revolution of 14 january 2011. the numerous visits and missions of meps to tunisia and the adoption of resolutions on tunisia - including the latest one of 14 september 2016 - perfectly illustrate the european parliament's keen interest in the success of the tunisian democratic experiment. my deepest gratitude also goes to the various political groups and the members of the european parliament who took part in the election observation missions in 2011 and 2014, and who were privileged witnesses of the new democratic learning in tunisia. my presence here today also reflects my gratitude to all the institutions of the european union and the peoples of europe whom you represent here for their sincere commitment to tunisia and its democratic process. my visit to brussels today comes at a historic and highly symbolic moment for tunisian-european relations, which this year celebrate the 40th anniversary of the first cooperation agreement of 1976, culminating in the holding of high-level meetings between tunisia and the european union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have come to this chamber to convey a message of friendship from the tunisian people to all the peoples of europe whom you represent. tunisia, located in the far north of north africa, very close to europe, has always considered the european continent as a natural anchorage. this proximity to europe has deeply marked our history for the past 3000 years. the fate of tunisia has always been linked to that of europe. we have been influenced by it and sometimes even vicissitudes and occupation, but tunisia has always maintained close and harmonious ties with europe and its peoples, and has always looked to the future rather than looking to the past. these links must be the foundation on which we must build today an even stronger strategic relationship between tunisia and europe, which is up to the challenges and issues of today. the revolution of 14 january opened a new chapter in the history of tunisia. the tunisian people rose up in a peaceful and spontaneous way, without any ideological or religious reference, against the established order and despotism. this uprising was led by young people seeking dignity and freedom. it would not have been possible without the sacrifices of the martyrs who paid with their lives for their aspiration to freedom, respect for human dignity and better living conditions. the tunisian people have indeed dared to break with the regime. it has engaged in a process of political transition and modernisation that is part of the continuation of the reformist movement initiated in the mid-19th century by forerunners such as kheireddine pacha, and followed in the 20th century by moncef bey, tahar haddad, habib bourguiba and many others. was not tunisia one of the first countries, and certainly the first arab country, to abolish slavery in 1846 and to promulgate, with the fundamental pact, the first political constitution in the land of islam, in 1861? then there was the constitution of 1959, a constitution that, precisely, guaranteed freedom to human beings in tunisia. it is therefore a constitution of human rights, ahead of its time in comparison with other countries. it was also the first to grant a single status to women, with the promulgation of the personal status code in 1956, in the aftermath of independence. the position of tunisian women is exceptional in the arab-muslim world today. we may be criticized a little bit for this in some parts of the world, but that is our choice and our pride. reformist tunisia was based on an enlightened and moderate reading of religion and opposed any rigid or extremist doctrine. this specificity of tunisia today strengthens our irreversible march towards a democratic model to which all components of political society in our country are attached. tunisia is determined to prove to the world and to all those who have islamophobia, that islam is not incompatible with democracy. this is how we worked towards the adoption, in january 2014, of this modern constitution designed for a muslim people, which broadly reflects the same principles as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. free and transparent elections held in the same year have consolidated the democratic process through the establishment of constitutional institutions, the latest of which is the supreme judicial council, which guarantees the independence of the judiciary in our country. of course, this journey has not been easy, far from it. in the aftermath of the 2011 elections, the country experienced a serious political and identity crisis, which could have created a deep schism within tunisian society and derailed the democratic process. but the tunisians' attachment to their social model, as it has been shaped over the course of our history, and their refusal to accept a new authoritarianism in the name of religion, has helped to put the democratic transition back on track. in fact, the initiative i took in 2012 to create a party bringing together different political sensibilities resolutely oriented towards modernity is in this spirit. the differences and divisions within the political class were overcome by a unique tunisian approach based on dialogue, compromise and consensus, and the involvement of the country's main forces. this approach has been recognised by the international community and has earned international recognition for the national dialogue quartet, which was awarded the nobel peace prize in 2015. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the political progress made in human rights and democracy, tunisia has to respond to socioeconomic and security challenges. as you know, tunisia is the only country in our southern neighbourhood which has embarked on a profound political and economic transformation and at the same time is waging a relentless fight against terrorism. the democratic transition has a cost, and this is felt in sectors of socioeconomic activity. this cost was reflected in particular in a sharp deterioration in macroeconomic indicators. while tunisia had an average annual growth rate of 5% in the previous decade, it is now no more than 1.5%. finally, to enable our economy to regain its strength and to speed up the pace of reforms, i took the initiative, as you have just indicated, mr president, of forming a government of national unity led by competent young people, with a strong female participation. the most important positions in tunisia are currently held by women. this government, supported by the main political parties and national organisations, is embarking on the implementation of the major reforms needed to build a sustainable and inclusive growth model. the five-year development plan 2016-2020 is largely in line with this policy. the recent adoption of the investment code confirms our commitment to providing the tunisian economy with a framework conducive to domestic and foreign investment. i am pleased that the 'tunisia 2020' conference which just ended, just yesterday, has repositioned tunisia on the international investment map. i would like to express my particular appreciation to our european partners, who have contributed to the success of this major economic event. the contracts signed and the commitments made on this occasion reflect renewed confidence in tunisia and its economic potential. tunisia has undeniable resources to help it overcome this difficult economic crisis. however, the economic transition remains fragile and subject to considerable challenges. the tunisian exception must be further supported, just as other countries in their time have been supported in their democratic process. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tunisia has always enjoyed strong and close ties with the european union. as the first country to conclude an association agreement with the european union in july 1995, tunisia has made its rapprochement with the union a constant of its foreign policy and a strategic choice. our relations have gained new momentum since 2011, which was concretised in 2013 by a privileged partnership, which was supposed to allow for an even closer rapprochement between tunisia and the european union, with which it now shares the same democratic values. it is therefore only natural that tunisia considers the european union, its first partner, as its main support during this delicate phase. in this regard, we welcome the important support provided by the european union to the success of the first phases of the transition in tunisia. we particularly welcome the new measures recently announced in the joint communication of the high representative of the union and vice-president of the european commission to further strengthen this support in the coming years. however, we believe, and i am sorry to say this, that the traditional instruments of cooperation are still insufficient to accompany the remarkable changes under way in our country. our country, which is experiencing something unprecedented in its region, is entitled to expect differential treatment from its first partner. we welcome in this connection the fact that the european parliament has recognised the scale of support needed to consolidate the success of this experiment by proposing, in its recent resolution, significant support measures for tunisia, such as the implementation of a marshall plan and the conversion of debt into investment projects. we hope that this initiative will find a favourable response from the other european institutions and the member states in order to mobilise substantial support that is commensurate with the challenges and issues facing our country. such support is now essential to accompany tunisia and help it to pass this crucial stage in its history. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our region is shaken by major crises and is beset by doubt and uncertainty. in this environment, some are tempted to withdraw into themselves, to reject the other and to resort to violence. security and migration issues are ongoing concerns and strategic challenges that require intensified dialogue and enhanced cooperation to provide common responses. in tunisia, we are building our democracy in a region that is in turmoil because of the situation in a neighbouring country, libya, and the security threats linked to cross-border arms trafficking and attempted infiltration by terrorist elements. tunisia is targeted by terrorists because its democratic and socio-cultural model is at odds with their obscurantist vision. we are determined to face this scourge that blinds us, regardless of race or religion. tunisia is at the forefront of the fight against terrorism and deserves full support in its efforts. our success in this fight will also contribute to the security of europe. on my initiative, tunisia adopted a manifesto on 18 november, known as the 'tunisian declaration against terrorism and for tolerance and solidarity between peoples, cultures and religions'. we announced the adoption of this text on the occasion of the inauguration, at the bardo museum, of an exhibition entitled 'shared saints' illustrating the common mediterranean spiritual experience. in opening this exhibition in the presence of families of victims of terrorist acts, i also wanted to recall that tunisia is an ancestral land of tolerance, hospitality and cultural and religious plurality. it is therefore essential today to further promote the values of dialogue and tolerance and to put the human dimension back at the heart of our relations. our membership of the common mediterranean area requires us to remind the world of the virtues of openness and dialogue. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. this hope must be borne first and foremost by the young people on both sides of the atlantic. we must therefore ensure that youth is given priority in our future cooperation. in this regard, we welcome the cooperation initiatives put in place by the european union in the field of youth, higher education and scientific research. in conclusion, i would like to stress that we prefer to speak of the tunisian exception rather than the tunisian model. our democratic experience, which has made important steps forward, remains fragile. this experience needs strong support from european partners more than ever, because the success of tunisian democracy is not only in the interest of tunisia, but also in the interest of europe. a strong and prosperous democratic tunisia will help stabilise the eu's southern neighbourhood. that is the message of trust and friendship i wanted to convey to the european parliament. finally, i would like to reiterate my warm thanks to the european parliament for giving me the opportunity to address its honourable members and, through them, the friendly peoples they represent, and i invite many of them to come and visit free and democratic tunisia because the security situation there is currently very similar to that in europe. * * *
mr president, i would like to raise a point of order under rule 186. in the debate this morning on combating racism, xenophobia, homophobia and the rest of it, i would like to raise a complaint against vice-president paşcu, a socialist, who took a personal position in applauding catherine bearder this morning. under rule 22(3), ‘the president may speak in a debate only to sum up or to call speakers to order. should he wish to take part in a debate, he shall vacate the chair and shall not reoccupy it until the debate is over.’ he reprimanded me for facts in my speech, whereas ms bearder quoted subjective opinions, not facts, inciting racial hatred and hatred against others. he should step down as a vice-president as he cannot be trusted to provide impartiality. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, i wanted to raise the fact that today is world aids day and, i wanted to pay tribute to the victims of hiv and aids ... (objections from certain quarters)... and i wanted to ask this house to show its appreciation to end the stigma for those living with hiv. (applause from certain quarters)
in writing. – this file sought to correct the customs code as it was necessary for it to be done in order for member states to be able to do their job in checking the goods that enter the eu. it was a correction of flawed drafting therefore, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, as this is consistent with the principles of my mandate as an mep who was elected to support the uk’s withdrawal from the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip mep’s voted against this legislative report. ukip, on principle, do not support eu legislation. moreover, ukip oppose the union customs code (ucc) on the grounds that it has added administrative and financial burdens in the supply chain.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report correcting errors in the original union customs code legislation. if a ship temporarily leaves customs union territory whilst travelling at sea it is right and common sense that whilst they should make their goods available for inspection at their destination port, a simplified customs procedure is possible.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip, on principle, does not support eu legislation. moreover, ukip opposes the ucc on the grounds that it has added administrative and financial burdens in the supply chain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation amending the union customs code (ucc). in the ucc, there is a legal gap concerning goods that have temporarily left eu territory whilst moving between two points within the eu by sea or air. this regulation closes that gap. this issue could become more important for wales in years to come.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the union customs code. there is no legal basis for requiring goods that are unloaded or transhipped to be presented at the point where they re-enter the customs territory of the european union after having temporarily left it. given the critical element for authorities to ensure safety, i support the essentiality that both import duty and other charges are correctly levied and suitably apply non-fiscal measures such as sanitary controls. this regulation should enter into force as soon as possible in order to ensure effective supervision of goods.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 laying down the union customs code, as regards goods that have temporarily left the customs territory of the european union by sea or air. the current proposal to amend article 136 is aimed at ensuring equal treatment of goods and providing again the legal basis that was already established through the old customs code.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this legislative report. ukip, on principle, does not support eu legislation. moreover, ukip opposes the ucc on the grounds that it has added administrative and financial burdens in the supply chain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not support eu legislation and ukip opposes the ucc on the grounds that it has added administrative and financial burdens on the supply chain.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 laying down the union customs code, as regards goods that have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by sea or air. the current proposal to amend article 136 is aimed at ensuring equal treatment of goods and providing again the legal basis that was already established through the old customs code.
in writing. – i abstained on this vote, which extends the deadline for implementation of the regulation requiring providers of packaged retail insurance investment products (priips) to give customers a key information document (kid). priips are the products usually offered by banks to everyday customers when they want to make an investment – e.g. buying a house. the commission’s regulation sets the terms on which the priips industry is required to provide investors with a kid, a mandatory, standardised disclosure document that outlines potential risk, costs and future performance scenarios. this report postpones the roll-out of the kid by one year while the commission revises the regulatory technical standards (rts). i want the kid requirements to be implemented as soon as possible, but the entry into force of the regulation in the absence of the rts would be impractical. there has not been sufficient justification for delaying the implementation of the kid by a full year. i also have concerns that the commission has indicated its revision of the rts will address some of the demands of the industry lobbies instead of sticking to the exact proposals for revision adopted by parliament in the september plenary.
in writing. ‒ i cannot vote in favour of new eu legislation in principle; however i also support the reasons behind the delay in this legislation which would otherwise have resulted in investors being misled. being unable to either vote for or against, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ voting against this proposed delay in bringing an eu regulation into force would have resulted in rules being implemented that would mislead investors; voting in favour of the delay would nevertheless amount to an approval of eu legislation that ukip regards as unnecessary for the uk (as the common law already provides for disclosure to investors of all information relevant to a reasonable person’s decision to invest). accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ voting against this proposed delay in bringing an eu regulation into force would have resulted in rules being implemented that would mislead investors; voting in favour of the delay would nevertheless amount to an approval of eu legislation that ukip regards as unnecessary for the uk (as the common law already provides for disclosure to investors of all information relevant to a reasonable person’s decision to invest). accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims at improving investor protection and rebuilding consumer trust by increasing transparency in the retail investment market. the packaged retail insurance-based investment products’ aim is to impose disclosure requirements on future performance, risk and costs on the banks and financial services that market these products to retail investors. i support the introduction of key information documents covering not only collective investment schemes but also other packaged investment products offered by banks or insurance companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the priips proposal introduces a series of measures aimed at enhancing investor protection and rebuilding consumer trust in the financial services industry by increasing transparency in the retail investment market. this is a technical proposal to postpone the date of implementation to 1 january 2018 in order to allow a level 2 legislation on the key information document to be adopted with stronger protection clauses for investors.
in writing. ‒ voting against this proposed delay in bringing an eu regulation into force would have resulted in rules being implemented that would mislead investors; voting in favour of the delay would nevertheless amount to an approval of eu legislation that ukip regards as unnecessary for the uk (as the common law already provides for disclosure to investors of all information relevant to a reasonable person’s decision to invest). accordingly ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report. the priips proposal introduces a series of measures aimed at enhancing investor protection and rebuilding consumer trust in the financial services industry by increasing transparency in the retail investment market. this is a technical proposal to postpone the date of implementation to 1 january 2018 in order to allow a level 2 legislation on the key information document to be adopted with stronger protection clauses for investors.
in writing. – i supported this file as we support the relaxation of certain travel restrictions providing the state in question possesses a solid human rights record.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, as this is consistent with the principles of my mandate as an mep who was elected to support the uk’s withdrawal from the european union. such decisions on visas, visa waivers, and entry of nationals of third countries into uk territory should properly be a matter for the british government to determine.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with kiribati will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the eu and the republic of kiribati as a basis for further developing friendly relations between the contracting parties. it will encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business, as well as safeguarding the principle of equal treatment of all eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as the signing of the short-stay waivers is significant for the eu and the state in question, since it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report as the signing of the short-stay waivers is significant for the eu and the state in question, as it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding.
in writing. – i supported this proposal, as we support the relaxation of certain travel restrictions provided that the state in question has a solid human rights record.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, as this is consistent with the principles of my mandate as an mep who was elected to support the uk’s withdrawal from the european union. such decisions on visas, visa waivers, and the entry of nationals of third countries into uk territory should properly be a matter for the british government to determine.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against in this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu’s concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships which this agreement with the solomon islands will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against in this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu’s concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the eu and the solomon islands, as this constitutes an important step to further develop economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogues on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as the signing of the short-stay waivers steps up europe’s economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, as the signing of the short-stay waivers steps up europe’s economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue.
in writing. – we supported this proposal, as we support the relaxation of certain travel restrictions provided that the state in question has a solid human rights record.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, as this is consistent with the principles of my mandate as an mep who was elected to support the uk’s withdrawal from the european union. such decisions on visas, visa waivers, and the entry of nationals of third countries into uk territory should properly be a matter for the british government to determine.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against in this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu’s concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with micronesia will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip mep’s have voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between eu and the federated states of micronesia, as this constitutes an important step to further develop economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogues on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the signing of the short-stay waiver agreement steps up europe’s economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, as the signing of the short stay waivers steps up europe’s economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue.
in writing. – we supported this file as we support the relaxation of certain travel restrictions providing the state in question possesses a solid human rights record.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, as this is consistent with the principles of my mandate as an mep who was elected to support the uk’s withdrawal from the european union. such decisions on visas, visa waivers, and entry of nationals of third countries into uk territory, should properly be a matter for the british government to determine.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with tuvalu will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the eu and tuvalu. i am in support of deepening the relations between the european union and tuvalu, as this constitutes an important step to further develop economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogues on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the signing of the short stay waiver agreement is significant for the eu and the state in question as it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, as the signing of the short-stay waivers is significant for the eu and the state in question as it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding.
in writing. – we supported this file as we support the relaxation of certain travel restrictions providing the state in question possesses a solid human rights record.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, as this is consistent with the principles of my mandate as an mep who was elected to support the uk’s withdrawal from the european union. such decisions on visas, visa waivers, and entry of nationals of third countries into uk territory should properly be a matter for the british government to determine.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with the marshall islands will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the short—stay visa waiver agreement between the eu and the marshall islands, as this constitutes an important step to further develop economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogues on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the signing of the short—stay waiver agrement is significant for the eu and the state in question as it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this legislative consent vote. ukip does not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries, particularly when this concerns the movement of people.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, as the signing of the short-stay waivers is significant for the eu and the state in question as it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report which assessed the successes and failures of the most recent changes to the european union’s solidarity fund. while the 2014 reforms did go a long way towards simplifying procedures for disaster stricken areas, there were some areas where it could go further. during the bad flooding last winter in ireland, we consistently argued that applications should be possible jointly by regions divided by a border and to classify regions in terms of the nuts iii category. we are glad that an amendment to this aim was included in the final text as well as proposed changes regarding advanced payments and lowering the threshold for applications by peripheral areas with low socio-economic conditions.
in writing. ‒ whilst i support the principle of solidarity when it comes to disaster relief, i am unconvinced that the solidarity fund is fit for purpose. money often takes months, or longer, to be approved. member states pay for this fund, which is then redistributed amongst member states, so the overall impact of the fund – given the administration and bureaucracy caused – may not actually provide any net benefit to disaster relief. this resolution correctly identifies some issues, however, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this vote. this vote concerned emergency disaster relief management, and we did not wish to stand in the way of such a scheme, even if it is under the control of the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this vote. this vote concerned emergency disaster relief management, and we did not wish to stand in the way of such a scheme, even if it is under the control of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on the solidarity fund which enables eu financial assistance to be provided in the event of natural disasters. despite my many calls, the uk government refuses to take advantage of the solidarity fund to help overcome disasters in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour for the assessment of the european union solidarity fund enabling eu to respond to major natural disasters that have a direct impact on people’s lives, the natural environment and the economy in a given affected region.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this vote. this vote concerned emergency disaster relief management, and we did not wish to stand in the way of such a scheme, even if it is under the control of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i continue to deplore the uk government’s refusal to complete its application for the eu solidarity fund for the floods that hit the north of the uk last winter, with serious long term consequences for my constituents in north west england.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on these two resolutions. whilst i support better protection of personal data, i do not believe that the ecj is the best institution to make that determination.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted to abstain on this non-legislative resolution. ukip do not respect decisions that derive from the european court of justice so we could not support this resolution. voting against this resolution would lead to the agreement being voted on today. ukip do not support accelerating eu-third country agreements, so an abstention was deemed the most appropriate vote.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted to abstain on this non-legislative resolution. ukip do not respect decisions that derive from the european court of justice so we could not support this resolution. voting against this resolution would lead to the agreement being voted on today. ukip do not support accelerating eu-third country agreements, so an abstention was deemed the most appropriate vote.
in writing. ‒ president, i did not support this resolution given the fact that i have reservations regarding the compatibility of the umbrella agreement with the charter and secondary eu data protection legislation, especially concerning the right to judicial redress, the access of law enforcement agencies, limitation of data subject access rights and data retention periods.
in writing. ‒ i voted against seeking an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection, and prosecution of criminal offenses. the us-eu agreement on the protection of personal information relating to criminal offenses establishes a framework of data protection principles and safeguarding measures.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted to abstain on this non-legislative resolution. ukip do not respect decisions that derive from the european court of justice so we could not support this resolution. voting against this resolution would lead to the agreement being voted on today. ukip do not support accelerating eu-third country agreements, so an abstention was deemed the most appropriate vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted to abstain from this non-legislative resolution. ukip do not respect decisions that derive from the european court of justice so we could not support this resolution. voting against this resolution would lead to the agreement being voted on today. ukip do not support accelerating eu-third country agreements so an abstention is the most appropriate vote.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against seeking an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection, and prosecution of criminal offenses. the us-eu agreement on the protection of personal information relating to criminal offences establishes a framework of data protection principles and safeguarding measures.
in writing. – on albrecht we voted against the report. we supported the referral of the file to the european court of justice to assess compatibility with existing eu data protection legislation. the file itself provides for some additional protections but by no means goes far enough. it differentiates between eu and non-eu citizens, it would also mean that it would become more difficult to challenge the legality of data exchange in court. it may contradict existing eu data protection legislation. it doesn’t cover the protection of information exchanged between national security agencies or private entities either. for those reasons we voted against.
in writing. ‒ supporting better protection of personal information, yet believing that such matters should be determined between the uk and the usa, and noting that this will not impact on the uk anyway as the government is expected to opt out of this, i felt it appropriate to abstain.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted to abstain on this legislative consent procedure vote. ukip principally do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries. however, as this agreement is largely seeking to improve data protection safeguards and is not directly applicable to the uk, unless our sovereign government wishes to participate, it was more appropriate to abstain on this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this eu-us data protection agreement after many years of difficult negotiation. this agreement will provide eu and uk citizens with greater rights of redress and higher levels of protection for their personal data and i am very supportive of the creation of a clear legal transatlantic legal framework for data protection.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted to abstain on this legislative consent procedure vote. ukip principally do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries. however, as this agreement is largely seeking to improve data protection safeguards and is not directly applicable to the uk, unless our sovereign government wishes to participate, it was more appropriate to abstain on this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this historic agreement on data sharing between the eu and the us for criminal law enforcement. it gives judicial redress to eu citizens, like my constituents in wales, when their rights are infringed. some are concerned about the legal clarification and i was also happy for this to be sent to the european court of justice to be examined.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of eu-us agreement on protection of personal information relating to crime and offences given the umbrella agreement constitutes an important step forward compared to the existing system of data protection in the current bilateral agreements between the us and eu. the umbrella agreement also foresees law enforcement cooperation. in circumstances of terrorism and specifically cyber-crime for example, cooperation with the us is of the essence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting this agreement on the grounds that it establishes a framework of data protection principles and safeguards for when personal data is transferred for criminal law enforcement purposes between the eu or the member states and the us.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted to abstain on this legislative consent procedure vote. ukip principally do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries. however, as this agreement is largely seeking to improve data protection safeguards and is not directly applicable to the uk, unless our sovereign government wishes to participate, it was more appropriate to abstain on this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the legislative consent procedure vote. ukip principally do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries. however, as this agreement is largely seeking to improve data protection safeguards and is not directly applicable to the uk, unless our sovereign government wishes to participate, it is appropriate to abstain on this agreement.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of adopting this agreement on the grounds that it establishes a framework of data protection principles and safeguards for when personal data is transferred for criminal law enforcement purposes between the eu or the member states and the us.
in writing. ‒ given the current political climate, the protection of citizens’ personal information and data, either between states or in general on the internet, is a key issue that policy-makers must tackle. the eu is an instrumental platform for guaranteeing civil rights online, such as the right to privacy. as a member of the european internet forum i will continue to advocate for and defend these rights.
in writing. – we voted against this report as we believe it will disadvantage ghana. the report was on establishing a transitional trade deal between the eu and ghana while the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement negotiations are still underway. the trade deal voted on is an economic partnership agreement. the eu has been using these epas with african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries in order to force the liberalisation of their economies without providing any new benefit to them. the acp countries already have access to the eu market but in recent years the epa deals struck by europe open access to the poorer countries to the eu without factoring in the massive inequality between the partners. this agreement will be detrimental to the majority of people of ghana and it does not contain a sustainable development chapter.
in writing. ‒ i found myself torn on this resolution: i recognise that ghana is supportive of this agreement, yet note the negative consequences that similar agreements have caused for other countries around the world and the negative impacts that they have often had on poverty in certain sectors of the economy in other countries (for example eu overfishing in the gulf of guinea has caused a spike in onshore poverty). i therefore abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this vote. whilst we concede that eu deals with poor countries often exacerbate poverty, we note the desire of the ghanaian government to sign this deal so as to secure market access. for this reason, despite our reservations about this deal, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which provides an important safety net to the ghanaian economy. given the delays and difficulties in signing the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement following the conclusion of negotiations, it is essential that ghana continue to benefit from a wto—compatible agreement for full duty and free quota free access to the european market. any loss of market access could result in serious disruption to the ghanaian economy and as a consequence this interim epa is required as a temporary measure to ensure legal and economic stability. we should continue to work towards a full regional epa as the best solution for all participants.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this vote. whilst we concede that eu deals with poor countries often exacerbate poverty, we note the desire of the ghanaian government to sign this deal so as to secure market access. for this reason, despite our reservations about this deal, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ghana’s interim economic partnership agreement in order to ensure ghana’s duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market until the regional epa is achieved which would see an integrated west african economic community.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this vote. whilst we concede that eu deals with poor countries often exacerbate poverty, we note the desire of the ghanaian government to sign this deal so as to secure market access. for this reason, despite our reservations about this deal, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of ghana’s interim economic partnership agreement in order to ensure ghana’s duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market until the regional epa is achieved which would see an integrated west african economic community.
in writing. ‒ i joined many colleagues in my socialist and democratic group, including the shadow rapporteur, in voting against the eu-ghana epa. the agreement falls short on sustainable development and labour rights criteria, and risks to interfere with regional integration under ecowas. we object to the commission’s conduct in rushing the agreement through, while we express support to our progressive colleagues in ghana. as an advocate of the alternative trade mandate (atm) i support trade that puts people and planet ahead of profit. this is a complex and multifaceted issue, but upon listening and weighing both sides of the argument, i have concluded that a vote against would reflect these atm principles.
in writing. – the contingency margins may have a positive element with regards to allocating aid which would assist migrants and refugees, however one must also take into account this also includes the facility for refugees in turkey, and support for the likes of frontex. this is because these margins are for heading 3 ‘security and citizenship’. for 2017 this also includes heading 4 ‘global europe’ which covers programmes such as: the common security and defence policy, guarantee fund for external actions, and ‘macro-financial assistance’. it was proposed originally by the european parliament to also use the contingency margins for 2016 and 2017 for sustaining certain programmes which would fall under heading 1 of the multi-financial framework for programmes that are progressive and socially orientated. however the council did not budge and dictated that under that heading, funds would have to be redeployed instead, which would mean cutting such programmes to fund another similar programme under that heading, as opposed to using the contingency margin which would entail not having to resort to sacrificing one programme over another. as a result we abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. the contingency margin is an eu financial instrument which is meant to be used as a last resort for unforeseen circumstances and amounts to 0.03% of eu gni. this specific proposal is to mobilise eur 240.1 million for 2016 to use on the migration, refugee and security crisis. ukip voted against as we oppose the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. the contingency margin is an eu financial instrument which is meant to be used as a last resort for unforeseen circumstances and amounts to 0.03% of eu gni. this specific proposal is to mobilise eur 240.1 million for 2016 to use on the migration, refugee and security crisis. ukip voted against as we oppose the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on the solidarity fund which enables eu financial assistance to be provided in the event of natural disasters. despite my many calls, the uk government refuses to take advantage of the solidarity fund to help overcome disasters in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour for the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016, given its mobilisation is necessary to address the needs stemming from the migration, refugee and security crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, given the absence of any margin in commitments under security and citizenship (heading 3) in 2016, draft amending budget (dab) 4/2016 requires the mobilisation of the contingency margin for + eur 240.1 million.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. the contingency margin is an eu financial instrument which is meant to be used as a last resort for unforeseen circumstances and amounts to 0.03% of eu gni. this specific proposal is to mobilise eur 240.1 million for 2016 to use on the migration, refugee and security crisis. ukip voted against as we oppose the eu spending british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, given the absence of any margin in commitments under security and citizenship (heading 3) in 2016, draft amending budget (dab) 4/2016 requires the mobilisation of the contingency margin for + eur 240.1 million.
in writing. – this file sought increased appropriations for security and citizenship, of which we are of the opinion, given the past performance of the eu in this regard, that the money will be spent furthering the eu’s imperial adventures and also into frontex which is not fit for purpose. thereafter, the file ties itself somewhat to migration but the reality is that the increased appropriations will be used in a nefarious way for security purposes, as well as the file reinforcing own resources to which we are opposed. therefore, i had to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution. whilst it will return some money to the uk (which was owed to the uk anyway), it simultaneously increases certain eu budget lines by a total of eur 225 and creates 5 extra posts for frontex.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this binding budgetary report. this amending budget would increase eu budget ceilings by a net total of eur 255 million and also create 50 new posts for frontex (the eu border force). however it also cuts the amount of payment appropriations from the eu budget by over eur 7 billion and gives this money back to member states. our calculation shows that the uk would get an estimated eur 1.6 billion back. while ukip cannot vote in favour of increasing eu budgets, we can’t oppose getting money back for the uk – which is the reason why ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this binding budgetary report. this amending budget would increase eu budget ceilings by a net total of eur 255 million and also create 50 new posts for frontex (the eu border force). however it also cuts the amount of payment appropriations from the eu budget by over eur 7 billion and gives this money back to member states. our calculation shows that the uk would get an estimated eur 1.6 billion back. while ukip cannot vote in favour of increasing eu budgets, we can’t oppose getting money back for the uk – which is the reason why ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the draft amending budget no 4/2016 which reflects the latest developments on migration, security, reduction of payments and commitment appropriation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which has been adopted in budg by a broad majority. the main effect of draft amending budget (dab) 4/2016 is a decrease in the level of payment appropriations by eur 7.3 billion due to under implementation. this money will go back to member states. dab 4/2016 also includes among others a reinforcement by +eur 240.1 million in commitment appropriations for security and citizenship (heading 3) and a frontloading of the staffing for the new european border and coast guard regulation.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this binding budgetary report. this amending budget would increase eu budget ceilings by a net total of eur 255 million and also create 50 new posts for frontex (the eu border force). however it also cuts the amount of payment appropriations from the eu budget by over eur 7 billion and gives this money back to member states. our calculation shows that the uk would get an estimated eur 1.6 billion back. while ukip cannot vote in favour of increasing eu budgets, we can’t oppose getting money back for the uk – which is the reason why ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report which has been adopted in the committee on budgets by a broad majority. the main effect of draft amending budget (dab) no 4/2016 is a decrease in the level of payment appropriations by eur 7.3 billion due to under implementation. this money will go back to member states. dab 4/2016 also includes among others a reinforcement by +eur 240.1 million in commitment appropriations for security and citizenship (heading 3) and a frontloading of the staffing for the new european border and coast guard regulation.
in writing. – five countries, the largest net contributors and recipients of rebates, are looking to receive an exemption from paying vat towards the own resources for three years. while we have a nuanced position against own resources, we could not support this position. therefore, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this resolution, which will require the united kingdom to hand over a further eur 700 million to brussels. i note that there is a suggestion that this is somehow offset by draft amending budget no 4, which is in fact a completely separate matter.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this amending budget would require the uk to pay just over eur 700 million back to the eu, retrospectively, for the years 2014 and 2015. ukip opposes giving any taxpayer’s money to the eu as it should be used to help jobs and public services back in the uk. asking the uk for a fresh backdated bill is doubly outrageous after the country just voted to leave the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this amending budget would require the uk to pay just over eur 700 million back to the eu, retrospectively, for the years 2014 and 2015. ukip opposes giving any taxpayer’s money to the eu as it should be used to help jobs and public services back in the uk. asking the uk for a fresh backdated bill is doubly outrageous after the country just voted to leave the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the draft amending budget no 5/2016 given that i support the implementation of the decision on own resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 5/2016 on the implementation of the new own resources decision no 2014/335/eu, euratom (ord 2014), following the completion of the ratification process and its entry into force on 1 october 2016. this dab has no effect on the overall revenue nor expenditure side of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this amending budget would require the uk to pay just over eur 700 million back to the eu, retrospectively, for the years 2014 and 2015. ukip opposes giving any taxpayer’s money to the eu as it should be used to help jobs and public services back in the uk. asking the uk for a fresh backdated bill is doubly outrageous after the country just voted to leave the eu.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 5/2016 on the implementation of the new own resources decision no 2014/335/eu, euratom (ord 2014), following the completion of the ratification process and its entry into force on 1 october 2016. this dab has no effect on the overall revenue nor expenditure side of the eu budget.
in writing. – this file was to mobilise funding from the european solidarity fund to germany after the catastrophic flooding in may and june 2016. therefore, i supported sending solidarity funding to the affected people of the affected areas.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that this fund is necessary. eu member states contribute to a fund from which they can then reclaim money in the event of a natural disaster. however, ultimately there will be no real net benefit in terms of the levels of administration involved. given that the fund exists, however, i see no reason to doubt that the situation in germany is a worthwhile cause and i have no objection to the proposal. i therefore felt, overall, that it was appropriate to abstain.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this binding budgetary report. the eu solidarity fund is an eu fund used when there has been a natural disaster in an area of europe. this specific proposal is to give germany eur 31 457 125 for floods in lower bavaria where there was material destruction and loss of life. although ukip opposes the eu spending any british taxpayer’s money, as this is to do with a natural disaster we decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this binding budgetary report. the eu solidarity fund is an eu fund used when there has been a natural disaster in an area of europe. this specific proposal is to give germany eur 31 457 125 for floods in lower bavaria where there was material destruction and loss of life. although ukip opposes the eu spending any british taxpayer’s money, as this is to do with a natural disaster we decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on the solidarity fund which enables eu financial assistance to be provided in the event of natural disasters. despite my many calls, the uk government refuses to take advantage of the solidarity fund to help overcome disasters in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. germany faced treacherous flooding in may and june of 2016, as significant damage was caused to businesses and agriculture, as well as heavy damage to the basic infrastructure, water supply, sewage services and electricity network. therefore, it is vital to support and provide assistance to our neighbouring member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. the total direct damage caused by the disaster was estimated at eur 1.26 billion by the german authorities. cases of flooding/flash floods caused destruction to public and private infrastructure, private homes, and agriculture.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this binding budgetary report. the eu solidarity fund is an eu fund used when there has been a natural disaster in an area of europe. this specific proposal is to give germany eur 31 457 125 for floods in lower bavaria where there was material destruction and loss of life. although ukip opposes the eu spending any british taxpayer’s money, as this is to do with a natural disaster we decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. the total direct damage caused by the disaster was estimated at eur 1.26 billion by the german authorities. cases of flooding/flash floods caused destruction of public and private infrastructure, of private homes, and in agriculture.
in writing. ‒ communities in my own constituency of the north-west of england are still recovering from the floods which hit them last winter, and still need support for reconstruction. eu solidarity funds would have provided welcome relief.
in writing. – this file sought for an increase in the social fund in instances where a natural disaster has taken place and has adversely affected the economy. given that natural disasters can adversely affect the economies of any member state, it is important that the eu shows solidarity to those people affected and helps them to stabilise in the aftermath of tragic circumstances. therefore, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ whilst i abstained upon the principle of the solidarity fund being used to the benefit of germany, i cannot do the same on the proposed increase to the budget ceiling for the solidarity fund, which would increase the ceiling by over eur 31 million. consequently, whilst i might well abstain on the mobilisation of existing and available finance, it is consistent for me to vote against a proposed increase to it.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this amending budget is taken in conjunction with a separate vote regarding germany’s application for the eu solidarity fund. the eu solidarity fund is an eu fund used when there has been a natural disaster in an area of europe. in order to give the money to germany it is required to increase the budget ceiling for the solidarity fund. as this will increase eu budgets (as opposed to just authorising money that is already available) ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this amending budget is taken in conjunction with a separate vote regarding germany’s application for the eu solidarity fund. the eu solidarity fund is an eu fund used when there has been a natural disaster in an area of europe. in order to give the money to germany it is required to increase the budget ceiling for the solidarity fund. as this will increase eu budgets (as opposed to just authorising money that is already available) ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2016 accompanying the proposal for mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. i am supporting the aid proposal which favours budgeting outside the corresponding multiannual financial framework (mff) ceiling regulation of expenditure (0.6% of gni or eur 3 billion). i also support the notion in the 2016 budget of increasing assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy, both in commitment and in payment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2016 linked to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide assistance to germany.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this amending budget is taken in conjunction with a separate vote regarding germany’s application for the eu solidarity fund. the eu solidarity fund is an eu fund used when there has been a natural disaster in an area of europe. in order to give the money to germany it is required to increase the budget ceiling for the solidarity fund. as this will increase eu budgets (as opposed to just authorising money that is already available) ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2016 linked to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide assistance to germany.
in writing. – the contingency margins may have a positive element with regard to allocating aid which would assist migrants and refugees; however, one must also take into account that this also includes the facility for refugees in turkey, and support for the likes of frontex. this is because these margins are for heading 3 ‘security and citizenship’. for 2017 this also includes heading 4 ‘global europe’ which covers programmes such as the common security and defence policy, the guarantee fund for external actions, and ‘macro-financial assistance’. it was proposed originally by the european parliament to also use the contingency margins for 2016 and 2017 for sustaining certain programmes which would fall under heading 1 of the multi-annual financial framework for programmes that are progressive and socially orientated. however the council did not budge and dictated that, under that heading, funds would have to be redeployed instead, which would mean cutting such programmes to fund another similar programme under that heading, as opposed to using the contingency margin which would entail not having to resort to sacrificing one programme over another. as a result i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ this budgetary instrument lies outside the normal ceilings for eu spending, and therefore i voted against its proposed mobilisation. the suggestion of applying a ‘contingency’ for 2017 before 2016 has even finished rather stretches the principle of a contingency.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. the contingency margin is an eu financial instrument which is meant to be used as a last resort for unforeseen circumstances and amounts to 0.03% of eu gni. this specific proposal is to mobilise eur 1.9 billion for the eu to spend on the migration, refugee and security crisis. ukip opposes the eu spending any british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. the contingency margin is an eu financial instrument which is meant to be used as a last resort for unforeseen circumstances and amounts to 0.03% of eu gni. this specific proposal is to mobilise eur 1.9 billion for the eu to spend on the migration, refugee and security crisis. ukip opposes the eu spending any british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017. i am supporting the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the full amount of eur 530 million available in 2017. it is necessary to mobilise the contingency margin to address the needs stemming from the migration, refugee and security crisis, by expanding the commitment appropriations in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017 above the ceiling of the contingency margin in the gross national income of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017. the decision on the mobilisation of the contingency margin presented by the commission together with the 2017 eu draft budget, and updated by amending letter no 1/2016, has to be aligned with the agreement reached in conciliation on the 2017 eu budget.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. the contingency margin is an eu financial instrument which is meant to be used as a last resort for unforeseen circumstances and amounts to 0.03% of eu gni. this specific proposal is to mobilise eur 1.9 billion for the eu to spend on the migration, refugee and security crisis. ukip opposes the eu spending any british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017. the decision on the mobilisation of the contingency margin presented by the commission together with the 2017 eu draft budget, and updated by amending letter no 1/2016, has to be aligned with the agreement reached in conciliation on the 2017 eu budget.
in writing. – the file sought for flexibility instruments to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure. however, it sought to use this flexibility to increase security spending under the guise of helping with migration and the refugee crisis. while i fully support the increase in expenditure related to the ongoing humanitarian crisis with thousands of people fleeing conflicts in syria and iraq, i do not support either the proposed increase in expenditure for security measures, or the expenses related to the eu-turkey declaration on refugees. the increased security measures and the eu-turkey declaration aim to bolster ‘fortress europe’ thereby preventing refugees from excising their right to seek asylum as laid down in article 18 of the charter of human rights. therefore, i voted abstention.
in writing. ‒ i oppose further spending of uk taxpayers’ money on additional eu projects, and therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. the flexibility instrument provides funding for clearly identified expenses which cannot be covered by the normal eu budget ceilings. it has a maximum of eur 471 million per year. this specific proposal is to mobilise eur 530 million over a four-year period to be spend on the ongoing migration, refugee and security crisis. ukip opposes the eu spending any british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. the flexibility instrument provides funding for clearly identified expenses which cannot be covered by the normal eu budget ceilings. it has a maximum of eur 471 million per year. this specific proposal is to mobilise eur 530 million over a four-year period to be spend on the ongoing migration, refugee and security crisis. ukip opposes the eu spending any british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to address the ongoing migration, refugee and security crises. i support the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to complement the financing in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017 beyond the ceiling of heading 3 by the amount of eur 530 million to finance measures in the field of migration, refugees and security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report adopted in the committee on budgets by a large majority. the flexibility instrument for 2017 is mobilised in commitment appropriations for an amount of eur 530 million for security and citizenship (heading 3).
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. the flexibility instrument provides funding for clearly identified expenses which cannot be covered by the normal eu budget ceilings. it has a maximum of eur 471 million per year. this specific proposal is to mobilise eur 530 million over a four-year period to be spend on the ongoing migration, refugee and security crisis. ukip opposes the eu spending any british taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report adopted in the committee on budgets by a large majority. the flexibility instrument for 2017 is mobilised in commitment appropriations for an amount of eur 530 million for security and citizenship (heading 3).
in writing. ‒ i reiterate the call for member states to do much more to tackle the ongoing refugee crisis. while i welcome eu plans and financing of measures, it is clear that much more needs to be done, and in the most part this depends on member state governments. specific measures should be taken to alleviate the plight of unaccompanied minors, as well as gender-sensitive policies to address the needs of refugee women and girls. there is an urgent humanitarian need for a common european response, and i regret the fact that the uk government has been unwilling to cooperate.
in writing. – this file sought for the possibility of advanced payments from the eu solidarity fund of up to eur 50 000 000 to be made available for payments in advance, but the overall maximum amount of the fund, eur 500 000 000 could not be exceeded. as it only sought advance payments and no increase in funds i supported it.
in writing. ‒ whilst agreeing with the principle that money should be mobilised more rapidly, i likewise had certain concerns about the application of the fund and whether appropriate safeguards would be in place to ensure democratic accountability to the spending of the money. i therefore, with some reluctance, followed my party’s position on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted for an improvement in the operation of the solidarity fund which enables financial assistance to be provided quickly in the event of natural disasters, including paying an advance. despite my many calls, the uk government refuses to take advantage of the solidarity fund to help overcome disasters in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide for the payment of advances in the 2017 budget. i support the union on responding in an efficient manner to emergency situations due to natural causes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund to provide for payment of advances in the 2017 budget. on 30 june 2016 the commission put forward a proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 50 million (in both commitment and payment appropriations). the proposal is not linked to a specific disaster. instead, it aims at entering [this amount] into the general budget of the union for 2017 in order to enable a timely and efficient reaction in the event of a disaster occurring next year. this report is therefore directly linked to the agreement on the 2017 eu budget as a whole.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund to provide for payment of advances in the 2017 budget. on 30 june 2016 the commission put forward a proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 50 million (in both commitment and payment appropriations). the proposal is not linked to a specific disaster. instead, it aims at entering [this amount] into the general budget of the union for 2017 in order to enable a timely and efficient reaction in the event of a disaster occurring next year. this report is therefore directly linked to the agreement on the 2017 eu budget as a whole.
in writing. ‒ solidarity funding is an aspect of cross-border support which demonstrates the eu’s core values. this is the kind of solidarity that the uk has benefited from in its more than 40 years of eu membership. labour meps will continue to stand up for our common european values of solidarity across borders, tolerance, openness and dialogue.
in writing. – for this file, i voted against. despite the extra financing for the eu youth unemployment initiative, this remains the most draconian budget in decades and this is reflected on the basis on the volume of cuts to funding to a number of progressive and social programmes that the council have pushed through. despite the all efforts and requests from the european parliament, member states within the council, in particular from the right-wing governments of the wealthier member states, were lacking in solidarity towards the rest, [and this] was apparently a recurring feature of the negotiations. the hallmark of this budget is that it indicates that austerity politics and policies driven by the council will continue for the foreseeable future. fundamentally there will also be cuts to tackling climate change, cuts to the european institute for gender equality, social and cohesion funding which was forecast to be a 23.5 % reduction compared to 2016. all this whilst trust funds for turkey, africa, etc. are to be reinforced..
in writing. ‒ i oppose the increased spending on the european union budget. british taxpayers, having voted to leave the european union, would be shocked to find that we are being expected to send more money to the european union next year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this was the final agreement on the eu budget for 2017 which would increase by 1.7% from 2016 (a eur 2.5 billion increase) – meaning the final eu budget for 2017 would be set at just over eur 157 billion. the uk is forecast to contribute over eur 17.3 billion gross (after taking in to account the uk rebate). ukip opposes this increase in the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this was the final agreement on the eu budget for 2017 which would increase by 1.7% from 2016 (a eur 2.5 billion increase) – meaning the final eu budget for 2017 would be set at just over eur 157 billion. the uk is forecast to contribute over eur 17.3 billion gross (after taking in to account the uk rebate). ukip opposes this increase in the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. i have supported an increase in the eu budget to enable us to act on climate change, build a truly sustainable economy and deal with the crises that face us. this is a missed opportunity. the final deal is very different from the original position of parliament and i do not believe it is a good agreement for my constituents in wales. if we say we are going to tackle climate change we must have the resources to do so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2017 budgetary procedure. i support the 2017 budget with the consideration of the mid-term revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff), ensuring a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the joint text on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 which was approved by the conciliation committee.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this was the final agreement on the eu budget for 2017 which would increase by 1.7% from 2016 (a eur 2.5 billion increase) – meaning the final eu budget for 2017 would be set at just over eur 157 billion. the uk is forecast to contribute over eur 17.3 billion gross (after taking in to account the uk rebate). ukip opposes this increase in the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the joint text on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 which was approved by the conciliation committee.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution accompanying an oral question. the resolution urges the commission to take all the necessary measures to provide support and help to the italian national and regional authorities involved in relief efforts following the recent earthquakes by simplifying procedures and shortening the time for approval and disbursement of financing from the european solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ the final resolution in this matter was not the subject of a roll-call vote. therefore, in the interests of transparency and democracy, i would like to confirm that i abstained on it.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. we first of all offer our condolences to all those affected by the earthquakes in italy. ukip is usually opposed to the spending of any eu money. however in light of the tragic human suffering in cases of environmental disaster we have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in italy after the earthquakes. i support the measures to simplify procedures and shorten the time of approval for funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. on 24 august 2016 a devastating earthquake hit central italy, while three other major quakes, within a flurry of tremors, struck central italian regions. the territories concerned suffer from a deformation that extends over an area of about 130 square km with a maximum displacement of at least 70 cm. consequently, the quakes have destroyed towns, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, ruined historic and cultural heritage, damaged economic activities especially smes, agriculture, as well as touristic and gastronomic potentials.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. we first of all offer our condolences to all those affected by the earthquakes in italy. ukip is usually opposed to the spending of any eu money. however in light of the tragic human suffering in cases of environmental disaster we have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. on 24 august 2016 a devastating earthquake hit central italy, while three other major quakes, within a flurry of tremors, struck central italian regions. the territories concerned suffer from a deformation that extends over an area of about 130 square km with a maximum displacement of at least 70 cm. consequently, the quakes have destroyed towns, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, ruined historic and cultural heritage, damaged economic activities especially smes, agriculture, as well as touristic and gastronomic potentials.
in writing. ‒ i would like to join my colleagues in extending condolences and support for all victims and communities affected by the recent earthquakes in italy. i hope european assistance will be able to aid in reconstruction and recovery efforts.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the one amendment to this report, which called to extend commissioners’ post-office employment restrictions to a period of at least 3 years without making any changes to the transitional rules. i am happy that this amendment was passed so that unethical appointments, such as that of former president of the commission josé manuel barroso to goldman sachs, do not happen in the future without a proper cooling-off period.
in writing. ‒ as this resolution would increase transparency, and place greater accountability upon the unelected commission, i felt it was important to vote in favour. however, as it is an own-initiative report i note that the passing of this resolution is not in any way binding.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted for this non-legislative report on commissioners’ declarations of interest. we in ukip believe that every commissioner must face scrutiny when they are appointed to their post, whether this be at the beginning of their term or should they be replacing a commissioner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these guidelines which set out clear protocols for avoiding conflicts of interests of commissioners, not only before they take office, but also during their term of office. these proposals would strengthen the power of parliament to prevent scandals such as those we have seen recently. parliament also wanted the cooling-off period for all former commissioners to be at least three years. i have always promised my constituents in wales that i would work for greater transparency and accountability.
in writing. ‒ i support the process on the commissioners’ declarations of interest in order to fulfil their mandates independently and to ensure full transparency and accountability on the part of the commission with the code of conduct.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the need for transparency and accountability. we need greater parliamentary control over conflicts of interests in the european commission. the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system does not suffice. the european parliament needs the ability to scrutinise candidates properly and politicians need to regain the trust of citizens.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted for this non-legislative report on commissioners’ declarations of interest. we in ukip believe that every commissioner must face scrutiny when they are appointed to their post, whether this be at the beginning of their term or should they be replacing a commissioner.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the need for transparency and accountability. we need greater parliamentary control over conflicts of interests in the european commission. the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system does not suffice. the european parliament needs the ability to scrutinise candidates properly and politicians need to regain the trust of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have been an active supporter and advocate of stricter rules on conflicts of interests of commissioners, including a longer cooling-off period for all commissioners, and more binding power for the commissioners’ ethics committee. this is in line with the proposals made by key stakeholders like transparency international. the recent actions by former commission president barroso and other similar case are a disgrace, and do not meet the standards we expect from democratic leaders. i will continue to pursue transparency, integrity, and openness in decision-making, and bringing in higher binding standards for officials and elected representatives.
in writing. – this file seeks to harmonise on rules for liability, compensation and financial security with a view to preventing further accidents with cross border implications while making sure that those liable can be held financially and legally accountable to persons and states, particularly if the damage fishing, tourism or wildlife. it introduces the idea of a horizontal european framework for collective redress for sectors hardest hit by oil and gas spills such as fisheries and coastal tourist sectors. although the idea of protecting both the environment by raising security standards and the idea of compensating inhabitants and workers of hard-hit areas is one i completely agree on, the usurpation of powers from member states to the eu in this creates a subsidiarity issue. in spite of this, it also sought the harmonisation of national legislation and areas of competence for member states, therefore i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks eu-wide harmonisation, and i was elected with a mandate to oppose that. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against this non-legislative report on compensation for offshore oil and gas operations. this report is trying to harmonise the civil claims process for offshore accidents, however the report does not even consider the fact that the international framework for each member state differs and it cannot be harmonised on matters of this issue.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against this non-legislative report on compensation for offshore oil and gas operations. this report is trying to harmonise the civil claims process for offshore accidents, however the report does not even consider the fact that the international framework for each member state differs and it cannot be harmonised on matters of this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas operations. it calls for the full implementation of the offshore safety directive, which is crucial in the event of serious accidents. like other countries, wales has in the past suffered from the impact of oil disasters which devastated our shores. we must do all we can to avoid this in future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu framework of liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas operations. effective and adequate measures need to be taken in order to compensate adequately claims on damage to victims, animals and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted to keep the report as adopted in committee. the report focuses on the importance of updating existing liability systems in the member states to ensure the application of the polluter-pays principle not only to environmental but also to traditional damages (bodily injuries/ property damages/ pure and consequential economic losses).
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against this non-legislative report on compensation for offshore oil and gas operations. this report is trying to harmonise the civil claims process for offshore accidents, however the report does not even consider the fact that the international framework for each member state differs and it cannot be harmonised on matters of this issue.
in writing. ‒ today i voted to keep the report as adopted in committee. the report focuses on the importance of updating existing liability systems in the member states to ensure the application of the polluter-pays principle not only to environmental but also to traditional damages (bodily injuries/property damages/pure and consequential economic losses).
in writing. – i abstained on this resolution. there were some very good aspects in the report on the protection and promotion of human rights, improving the legitimacy of elections, and improving the humanitarian situation in the drc. however the resolution also included calls endorsing and promoting the cotonou agreement. the cotonou agreement includes the promotion of economic partnership agreements between the eu and african, caribbean and pacific states. it forces the acp countries to open their economies to the eu without receiving new benefits in return, to the detriment of the majority of the population.
in writing. ‒ this matter was not the subject of a roll-call vote. in the interests of transparency and democracy i would therefore like to confirm that i abstained on the final text. whilst the report had much to commend it with regard to the situation in the democratic republic of congo, it also promoted an eu foreign policy and i could not therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. whilst we remain concerned at the potential further erosion of the security situation in drc we cannot support the development of eu foreign policy or the potential use of foreign policy tools. we remain fully supportive of regional and international efforts to resolve the political situation in drc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which expresses concern about the delay in calling presidential elections in the democratic republic of the congo and at the worsening situation there in terms of freedom of expression and freedom of the media. it calls for free association and assembly to be restored and for the release of political prisoners. my constituents in wales want to see the eu playing a more prominent role in achieving peace and development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution for the situation in democratic republic of congo. drc is a vast country with immense challenges in terms of poverty and security and gender based violence. human rights groups continually report on the downward spiralling situation of human rights and freedom of expression and the use of excessive force against peaceful demonstrators, journalists, political leaders and others. a political consensus is essential to provide comprehensive and transparent elections in order to protect citizens living anywhere in the national territory, and in particular to protect them against abuse and crimes, and to exercise the task of governing with respect for the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a motion for a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo. the deteriorating human rights situation is of great concern, particularly the violence and intimidation faced by human rights defenders, political opponents and journalists in this pre-electoral context.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. whilst we remain concerned at the potential further erosion of the security situation in drc we cannot support the development of eu foreign policy or the potential use of foreign policy tools. we remain fully supportive of regional and international efforts to resolve the political situation in drc.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of a motion for a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo. the deteriorating human rights situation is of great concern, particularly the violence and intimidation faced by human rights defenders, political opponents and journalists in this pre-electoral context.
in writing. ‒ i join my colleagues in expressing alarm at the deteriorating political and humanitarian situation in the congo. we call on the commission and eeas to do all they can to provide aid to those affected, monitor the situation, sanction those responsible, and ensure that perpetrators of war crimes are brought to justice.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this resolution, which contained such politically-correct suggestions as calling on the european union to include a ‘gender dimension on all its energy policies’. there are further calls for eu action on a matter which should not be the business of the eu: energy policy should be decided by national governments.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative resolution. in principle, ukip does not support eu interference in developing countries. moreover, ukip does not agree with calls in this resolution to include a gender dimension in all energy policies. ukip believe the best way to assist developing countries is via increased trade.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative resolution. in principle, ukip does not support eu interference in developing countries. moreover, ukip does not agree with calls in this resolution to include a gender dimension in all energy policies. ukip believe the best way to assist developing countries is via increased trade.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of access to energy in developing countries. i support this resolution due to the sheer number of over a billion people living without electricity as this can have an effect on health, safety and education. i support this notion because access to energy can be seen as a key feature for development as well as having sustainable modern energy contributing to the present environmental issues, as firewood and charcoal currently dominate africa’s energy consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on access to energy in developing countries. providing access to sustainable, reliable and modern energy in poor countries is a key driver of development and a goal that the eu and its member states have committed to in signing the sustainable development goals last year.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative resolution. in principle, ukip does not support eu interference in developing countries. moreover, ukip does not agree with calls in this resolution to include a gender dimension in all energy policies. ukip believe the best way to assist developing countries is via increased trade.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on access to energy in developing countries. providing access to sustainable, reliable and modern energy in poor countries is a key driver of development and a goal that the eu and its member states have committed to in signing the sustainable development goals last year.
in writing. ‒ i reiterate that the eu must continue to play a leading global role in pushing for sustainable energy and the fight against climate change, particularly given the worrying political developments in the us. this must be reflected in all aspects of development, trade, and economic policy.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report. this would require member states to do additional work to satisfy the commission, and there would be a potential cost implication for the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against this non-legislative report on the application of the european order for payment procedure. this report is calling for member states to provide to the commission accurate and up-to-date data for effective monitoring and evaluation purposes.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against this non-legislative report on the application of the european order for payment procedure. this report is calling for member states to provide to the commission accurate and up-to-date data for effective monitoring and evaluation purposes.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the application of the european order for payments procedure. i welcome a procedure applicable in civil and commercial matters relating to the main objective of simplifying and speeding up the procedure for the cross-border recognition and enforcement of creditors’ rights in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure. regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of 12 december 2006 creates a european order for payment procedure for claims not contested by the defendant. this simplifies, speeds up and reduces the costs of litigation in cases involving more than one eu country. it also permits the free circulation of european orders for payment which are recognised and enforced in all eu countries. the report is meant to give feedback on the almost 10 years of experience in applying this procedure throughout europe. the main conclusions of the report were positive towards the successful operation of the procedure in all the member states, but making the point that it should be made sure that it is more known and widely used, by informing and assisting citizens.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against this non-legislative report on the application of the european order for payment procedure. this report is calling for member states to provide to the commission accurate and up-to-date data for effective monitoring and evaluation purposes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure. regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of 12 december 2006 creates a european order for payment procedure for claims not contested by the defendant. this simplifies, speeds up and reduces the costs of litigation in cases involving more than one eu country. it also permits the free circulation of european orders for payment which are recognised and enforced in all eu countries. the report is meant to give feedback on the almost 10 years of experience in applying this procedure throughout europe. the main conclusions of the report were positive towards the successful operation of the procedure in all the member states, but making the point that it should be made sure that it is more known and widely used, by informing and assisting citizens.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, my understanding is that there is an ongoing constructive dialogue between the polish government and the european commission. in relation to the constitutional tribunal, there is no new information. hence no steps have been taken against the polish government by the commission. it sounds to me that the political rumour mill has gone into overdrive here. let us just clarify four points: there has been no law change in relation to either women’s rights or abortion in poland; the right to public demonstration remains as it was; there has been no law change in relation to natura 2000; and poland remains a member of the istanbul convention. this issue plainly boils down to matters of national sovereignty and i therefore request that this matter is dealt with accordingly.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, yesterday as you so rightly said, the coptic christian minority in cairo were victims of a wicked attack on their cathedral, their main place of worship. my colleague from the german delegation proposes that this house condemn the persecution of christians and i am most happy to present this request on behalf of the efdd group. the european union makes a habit of claiming to be defenders of human rights and that is why we have a duty also to defend christian minorities and their right to worship and express their freedom of belief in areas where they are a minority. we have a moral obligation to speak up for all persecuted minorities and to condemn violence by adopting a resolution accordingly, and i urge colleagues to support me.
mr president, in one of these packages the commission proposes to intensify competitive pressure on domestic railway markets, then in the others it calls for more subsidisation of rail services. how can you have fair competition with more and more subsidisation? this report is full of contradictions and, as per usual, it thinks it can solve all of the eu’s rail problems with a one—size—fits—all approach which has never worked before. it concerns me that the commission and the chamber do not seem to learn from their mistakes. but on a positive note, being able to buy a rail ticket from my home town in telford to paris without having to find my way through multiple different websites and companies is fundamentally a good idea. however, this should be done on a company-to-company basis, or bilaterally for those countries with a nationalised rail service. this chamber should be deregulating the market and enabling private enterprise to do this themselves.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the regulation on port services shows how difficult it is to develop a policy that works well for the many and varied ports we have across our continent. from the perspective of the uk, where ports have been run as private businesses for many years, many of the concerns of the committee on transport and tourism are simply not relevant, and the need for greater financial transparency for the smaller ports in southern member states has much less salience in the case of the larger ports of northern europe. we have sought greater clarity over state aid regulations so that public money given to european ports does not distort competition between them. as for the liberalisation of port services, perhaps we should apply the principle of subsidiarity, leaving countries free to choose whether or not they run ports as part of the public infrastructure. as greens, we also sought to have environmental criteria when setting charges for port services and were sorry to see this removed. worse still, the references we had added to the need to ensure strict adherence to eu law to protect the environment were also removed. a glimmer of hope can be found in the support for the use of short—sea shipping and inland waterways and railways for the delivery of goods, reducing the need for long distance road freight and the traffic congestion and unnecessary emissions it causes. but overall i have to say that we are disappointed in this proposal and consider that an opportunity to reduce the negative environmental impact of europe’s ports has been missed.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this proposal for market access, support services and financial transparency does nothing for ports in the united kingdom. the port sector in the uk is the second largest in the european union and all the ports represented by the ukmpg and bpa already operate within a competitive independent market-driven sector, providing wide choice to users. this regulation will have a significant impact on privately—financed ports by preventing them from operating as fully commercial businesses. this will threaten essential future investment and put people’s jobs at risk. it is not clear how this legislation will add any value. the united kingdom is leaving the eu and regulation like this is typical of the reasons why. we do not need this speculation. we do not want this regulation; yet it will become a requirement in the uk if passed by the eu.
mr president, although there are minor changes to the text, i deeply regret that this proposal has returned to this chamber. having been in contact with local ports recently – as recently as last week – i am in no doubt that this regulation would be bad for jobs and bad for northern ireland. yet again, the eu wants to take what is good and successful about an industry and enforce a ‘one size fits all’ approach. ports in northern ireland are already part of a private, thriving and independent uk sector. belfast harbour handles goods valued at 30 billion annually, with 700 companies based in the harbour estate, employing over 22 000 people. the new changes will create barriers through excessive regulation, oversight and administration. this proposal simply means more of the same, so i am thankful that the british people have voted to break free of this type of bureaucracy and would call upon uk ministers to respect their wishes and make opting out of the regulation a key priority in exit negotiations.
mr president, as mep of a region with four very successful privatised ports – hull, immingham, goole and grimsby – i am very disappointed with this regulation. it will impose costly administration on private ports without bringing any added value to them. its failure to tackle the problem of state aid, as well as all the loopholes inside it, means that it simply will not open up port services to competition. as has been shown in the member states which have privatised port sectors, it is competition between ports rather than prescriptive regulation that delivers greater efficiency. as a spokesman on smes, i am particularly disappointed that exemptions for smaller ports were removed. it does seem that the commission has succeeded with its ‘third-time-lucky’ approach here. what a shame it comes at the expense of the port industries of europe.
mr president, i am speaking tonight in support of this report. i very much want to thank our rapporteur, knut fleckenstein, for the amazing work he has done on the report; it really has not been easy. the reason that we have had a good result is because we had a very detailed debate on this back in march, at first reading, and i do think that there is a balanced result. i know that uk ports still have some concerns, but, with proper implementation and good interpretation, the rules on transparency can work to the benefit of everyone. also, i particularly welcome the specific reinforcement in the text of training rights for workers, and also the social dialogue: the importance of dialogue between trade unions and workers at european level and other levels. finally, to the commission: please, as other speakers have also said, take this regulation and do not seek to come back in a couple of years time to mandate more market access. this is not what we need in this sector; it is vital for our economy across europe and it is vital for the many, many thousands of workers who work in this sector.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, deep-sea fishing has indeed been the subject of passionate debate because of its impact on marine ecosystems. the current regulations provided for technical restrictive measures and also a ban on fishing in certain areas. despite these efforts, catch levels have been steadily declining. the high vulnerability of these particular stocks means that recovery is long or impossible. bottom trawls also result in high levels of bycatch. finally, scientists have difficulty in determining with certainty the level of sustainable fishing. it was therefore decided to adjust the regulations again to limit the harmful effects of this fishery. the proposal now includes a ban on trawling below 800 metres, a freeze on the fishing footprint, i.e. the obligation to fish only in areas already exploited, increased on-board controls and penalties, and the presence of scientific observers on board 20% of vessels. although strict, these measures should better protect marine ecosystems and preserve sustainable fisheries, so i will vote in favour of them.
mr president, mario draghi said ‘whatever it takes’. i believe him. the eu will do anything to preserve its pet projects, whether the euro or the common fisheries policy. this means they will play any trick, no matter how underhand, sly or destructive of democracy. they know there is a great repeal bill planned by the uk’s tory government. they therefore know that all the new rules and regulations they can get through over the next couple of years will be imposed on the british people, in some cases for decades. the greatest eu con for my country, scotland, and our neighbours, england, is the infamous common fisheries policy. the eu plans to use may’s misguided bill to give it an afterlife in the north sea and the north east atlantic. well, we have spotted your cunning plan and that is why we will oppose all those apparently obscure measures. it also tells us why the british government is foolish and idiotic if it accedes to labour, lib dem and ‘remoaner’ demands to reveal its hand in advance of the negotiations. shame on you. shame on them. let us get out of the european union now.
in writing. – this debate takes place just as the annual quota talks in brussels are commencing. whilst i campaigned for scotland to remain in the eu, i’d be the first to acknowledge that european fisheries policy has failed – and that’s why i campaigned for the reformed cfp to have strong regional decision-making at its heart. whilst brexit campaigners have highlighted that leaving the eu will bring fisheries powers back to the uk, nothing has been said as to where those powers will lie. it is essential in my view that powers over scotland’s fishing resources be held by the scottish parliament. fishing contributes proportionately far more to the scottish economy than it does to the uk as a whole – and for that reason the scottish parliament is more responsive to the industry’s needs than westminster. the scottish parliament will never allow our fishing industry to be used as a bargaining chip in wider negotiations. all too often in the past, december quota talks have failed because the uk government has given away too much. uk government documents from the 1970s stated that scotland’s fishing industry was ‘expendable’ in negotiations to join the then eec.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the problem with this report is that you believe in certain universal rights. so do i, and so do most people in europe. unfortunately, most of the world does not. many of the people now coming into europe are showing by their behaviour – whether in cologne, malmö or brussels – the contempt with which they regard both the rights of women and the rights of homosexuals and transgender people. you see, being homosexual myself i care that our streets are safe for all, regardless of gender or gender preference. when will the eu learn that freedom, including freedom of speech, is non-negotiable? migrants must fit in with our values, not vice versa. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is non-negotiable too.
madam president, i am very glad that this report highlights the need to increase the participation of women in decision-making. i would also like to emphasize the importance of empowering women in conflict resolution and peace building in ukraine. women must take the lead in any post-conflict reconciliation mechanism that is set up. we need women and girls to be involved in building vibrant democratic civil societies across eastern partnership countries – women who are leaders and role models in the social, cultural and political spheres. so programmes like erasmus+ and creative europe can be key cultural diplomacy tools, fostering inter-cultural dialogue and civic engagement, bringing women and girls together for the benefit of their societies. when women are included and empowered, everyone benefits. i would particularly like to applaud the excellent work that has been done over the past five years through the tandem project, which serves as a best practice example for progressing democracy and building capacity through cultural exchange, led primarily by women.
madam president, just over a year ago, on 5 december 2016, storm desmond broke the uk’s rainfall record, with more than 350 millimetres of rain falling on the county of cumbria in a 24-hour period in my northwest of england constituency. a subtropical atmospheric river unleashed devastation on large parts of northern england, scotland, wales and ireland, the like of which had not been seen before. while some constituents had, sadly, experienced flooding several times in recent years, desmond was unprecedented and, to make matters worse, was followed by storm eva on christmas eve and storm frank on 29 december. i pressed david cameron relentlessly regarding an application for eu solidarity funds, and i am disappointed that the government’s progress on completing the paperwork has been so slow. in the immediate aftermath of the storm, volunteer groups such as aid organisations ahmadiyya youth and al-imdaad and khalsa aid joined the emergency services in the clean-up. but the greatest credit must go to eden flood volunteers who over the past year have clocked up a total of 97 943 hours, worth more than gbp 783 542, supporting 20 000 flood affected families and businesses across nine counties, distributing an estimated 1.8 million worth of donated goods. well done, you.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioners for being with us here today. i welcome this ‘clean energy for all’ package, and i am glad it is called clean rather than green because i want to concentrate on the word clean. i am not talking about clean in terms of radical reductions in carbon, although i know that is the main focus for most people today, and that is very important. i am talking as the recent rapporteur for the national emission ceilings directive about being clean of pollutants other than carbon – that is nox, pm, etc. i particularly welcome the focus of this package on consumers, which is important as it is ultimately by adapting consumption patterns in energy and much more generally in the way we live that we can truly transition to a clean, low-carbon economy rather than a low-energy one. i would like to see very specific measures to tackle the problems associated with outdated carbon-heavy district heating schemes in some parts of the eu. on the theme of changing consumption patterns, we must look at ways of dealing with the issue of individual household log-burning – currently being overlooked as a major health issue because of our focus on diesel transport. i know these are fairly minor issues this morning, but i think that they should be considered.
madam president, a recent study from the westminster parliament indicates that current green policies will cost uk energy users as much as gbp 300 billion by 2030. this will do huge economic damage, yet both the national grid and our energy regulator ofgem are warning that over-reliance on intermittent renewables, coupled with the closure of baseload capacity forced by the large combustion plant directive, threaten power outages this winter. the national grid has responded by doing deals with the owners of diesel generators. madam president, you could not make it up. we are going to save the planet and cut co2 emissions by relying on diesel generators for backup. they are also looking at what they call ‘demand management’. i call it supply failure. it is getting factories to agree to close at peak demand times. in medieval times, folk who could not afford candles went to bed at sunset. they ground their corn in windmills which stood idle on calm days. by contrast, we are accustomed to secure supplies of energy available at the flick of a switch, but now these green policies threaten to send us back to the dark ages where our own power supplies are vulnerable to the vagaries of wind and weather, with dire social and economic consequences. in my party we demand secure and affordable energy for homes, for pensioners, for industry. we want an end to fuel poverty. for these reasons, we oppose the commission’s energy package and we oppose its obsession with renewable energy.
madam president, commissioners, just like the customs union and the single market, the uk government is being incredibly silent on the issue of the internal energy market. today’s clean energy package highlights that the eu is leading the way when it comes to promoting renewable energy, making our buildings more energy efficient, decarbonising our economy and fighting energy poverty. however, i believe that we can be more ambitious, especially in terms of energy efficiency. it is paramount that the uk remains within the internal energy market, and that we don’t listen to the usual climate change denial claptrap of ukip. outside the internal energy market, the uk will lag behind its 27 neighbours. not only is that bad for the environment, but it is bad for our industries and the sustainable green jobs of the future. energy is not a commodity. it is a basic social right. so what is your vision, theresa may? is it a united kingdom that turns its back on the climate, or a leader promoting jobs alongside our neighbours?
rapporteur. – mr president, this overhaul of our rules of procedure is intended to make them better in terms of efficiency, transparency and clarity. it is the result of a year-and-a-half’s work by a working group with a representative of every political group, helped by a task force at secretariat level that involved every parliamentary committee secretariat and the legal service of parliament. it is therefore very much a consensual report and i pay tribute to the role played by mr rainer wieland who chaired the working group, and indeed all the members of the working group. the bulk of what i propose to you today is very much consensual. it is an evolution, not a revolution. nonetheless, although many of the rule changes are technical, there are quite a few that are of political significance. let me list just a few very quickly. we have rewritten the procedure for first reading agreements with the other institutions, to make them more transparent and to introduce safeguards. we have put into our rules the consequences of the interinstitutional agreement with the other institutions on better law-making. we have put into our rules the changes to the procedure for hearings with commissioners that we agreed in the context of my own report of last year. we have put together a considerable package on transparency, building on the work that mr giegold had done in preparation of a different report, and steering a course between what is desirable and what is legally possible to do through changes to the rules of procedure, rather than through legislation and, of course, bearing in mind that we have to get an absolute majority in this house to approve any such changes. we have looked at the rules concerning the conduct of members; we are prohibiting racist and xenophobic language in this parliament. we have increased the penalties that can be imposed on members who transgress our rules in this parliament. we have rationalised the numerous thresholds in our rules of procedure for triggering different procedures, rationalising them to just three different thresholds. we have not raised the thresholds, by the way, and the most common threshold is the lower threshold. nonetheless, we have brought greater clarity here. we have also made provision concerning membership of parliamentary committees such that when a member leaves a political group and joins another one, which happens occasionally, the group that he or she belongs to can replace that member on the parliamentary committee that they left. this is particularly important, i think, for smaller groups who may only have one member of a committee and if that member leaves they are bereft of representation on that committee. so, overall, it is a wide package which i have the great honour to commend to the house.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am delighted that there is, in general, a very broad level of support for what we propose to review our rules of procedure, even if there are still some misgivings on one point or another. let me just respond to four or five of the key issues that have been raised. first, the complaint from my good friend mr šefčovič on behalf of the commission. indeed, the commission was present at all our committee meetings discussing this. i did not once hear the commission ask for any extra consultation beyond that, though of course, nonetheless, our president has written to you to inform you of all the amendments tabled at plenary stage after we had finished our work in the committee. but what we are doing in relation to the commission is largely about how we organise what we already do as a parliament, notably in terms of the commission hearings. some of them, other ones, actually respond to concerns of the commission, such as on the volume of parliamentary questions tabled in writing to the commission. but i am sure that after the vote we can explore any issues that you may feel perhaps are still there and we can look at practical solutions to that. second, on the question of thresholds. i repeat, we have rationalised not raised the thresholds. the lower threshold is actually lower than it is in our present rules because it means 38 members instead of 40 members can trigger a whole range of parliamentary procedures. the medium and the higher thresholds are rarely used, but they are used in cases which already now have a threshold that is as high, if not actually higher. so i do not think we have made any of these procedures more difficult for smaller groups or small numbers of members.third, on the issue of transparency. we have introduced legislative footprints. we have toughened up the declaration of members’ financial interests. we are proposing to ban second jobs and lobbying of parliament or the institutions. we are tightening up on the use of badges by outside people. we are bringing more transparency to first reading agreements and to trialogues. what we have not done on transparency are either things that are illegal, that we cannot do via the rules of procedure but where we need to change the primary legislation such as the members’ statute; or things where we need to reach agreement with the other institutions. that is true, but those issues are still open. we can revisit them and i am sure we will. and finally, may i address mr ferreira’s notion that this is a coup. a coup. if you really think that a working group composed of representatives from every single political group in the european parliament reporting back to public meetings of the committee on constitutional affairs is a coup, then i really am astonished. as i said, this also lowers many of the thresholds. it introduces a new procedure for topical debates where every group in turn can choose a debate on a subject of its choice. it introduces a number of other safeguards for individual members. this is not a coup. and if you were implying that as an individual member you find it difficult to make your political points within the wide, very wide, range of possibilities that this parliament offers to individual members, then i suggest that you may have some difficulty actually doing your job as an mep. let me finish, however, by commending this package to the house. it is reasonable, it is balanced. even on the points that are still subject to some contention i am confident that a large majority will back what the working group and i, as rapporteur, have put before this house today.
in writing. ‒ i do not support this agreement. as i do not believe that the united kingdom should be a part of the european union, i cannot support the participation of algeria in european union programmes whilst the uk remains a member.
in writing. – ukip voted against this consent procedure. so long as the uk continues to contribute to the eu central budget we will continue to oppose any legislation that would waste the money of the eu taxpayer. we do not support the transfer of eu money overseas or the continued development of an eu foreign policy through the european neighbourhood. as this only sets out general principles the budgetary impact and value for money of british contributions is unknown.
in writing. – ukip voted against this consent procedure. so long as the uk continues to contribute to the eu central budget we will continue to oppose any legislation that would waste the money of the eu taxpayer. we do not support the transfer of eu money overseas or the continued development of an eu foreign policy through the european neighbourhood. as this only sets out general principles the budgetary impact and value for money of british contributions is unknown.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support the strengthening of relations with the countries of north africa, including algeria, in order to foster economic growth, reform, and cultural ties. this is of vital importance for future growth, opportunity and security.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this consent procedure. so long as the uk continues to contribute to the eu central budget we will continue to oppose any legislation that would waste the money of the eu taxpayer. we do not support the transfer of eu money overseas or the continued development of an eu foreign policy through the european neighbourhood. as this only sets out general principles the budgetary impact and value for money of british contributions is unknown.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving consent to the eu-algeria framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes, as agreed by the foreign affairs committee of the european parliament. ensuring good relations around the globe and making agreements for co-operation is very important for the eu and for wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this consent procedure. so long as the uk continues to contribute to the eu central budget, i will continue to oppose any legislation that would waste the money of the eu taxpayer. i do not support the transfer of eu money overseas or the continued development of an eu foreign policy through the european neighbourhood, as this only sets out general principles the budgetary impact and value for money of british contributions is unknown.
in writing. ‒ as part of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of enp partner countries represents one of many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union’s neighbourhood. on 18 june 2007, the council issued directives to the commission to negotiate framework agreements, among others, with algeria, on the general principles for their participation in community programmes. the objective of the protocol is to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes. i voted in favour of this technical report, which contains standard clauses that are intended to be applied to all european neighbourhood policy partner countries with which such protocols are concluded.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this protocol. the objective is to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes. this is a technical report, which contains standard clauses that are intended to be applied to all european neighbourhood policy partner countries with which such protocols are concluded.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this technical report to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this consent procedure. so long as the uk continues to contribute to the eu central budget we will continue to oppose any legislation that would waste the money of the eu taxpayer. we do not support the transfer of eu money overseas or the continued development of an eu foreign policy through the european neighbourhood. as this only sets out general principles the budgetary impact and value for money of british contributions is unknown.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not wish for the eu to get involved in foreign affairs.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this protocol, the objective is to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes. this is a technical report, which contains standard clauses that are intended to be applied to all european neighbourhood policy partner countries with which such protocols are concluded.
mr president, of course comrade flanagan is exactly right, both about the problem and the possible solution – as the united kingdom is about to demonstrate – which makes me wonder why we are pushing through plans for the revision of the cfp in the north sea when the area covered by it territorially is about to shrink by around half. of course, when the united kingdom resumes control of its maritime resources out to 200 miles of the median line, we will want in a phased way –with the agreement of our european partners – to move to a system of national control. we should not behave precipitately, but we can at least take back control in the way that norway, iceland and other countries that have pursued successful conservation take for granted. you will find that, instead of being constantly bickering tenants, we will become good and responsible neighbours.
mr president, i seem to be following three in agreement, as mr flanagan, mr hannan and i all agree that it is best for the people of britain and our fishing industries to leave the european union, which has just taken our stocks, taken our jobs and in effect taken our income. and as mr hannan has said, and mr flanagan has repeated, one of the important parts of leaving the european union in our referendum was that we could take control of our laws, take control of our borders, take control of our trade, but more importantly take control of our fishing industries. go back to our 200-mile limit. create jobs once more on the coastlines that desperately need it. create income for our nation once more and ensure that in our new brexit future at this christmas we have a star above our people who have a fishing industry that becomes alive. and that is why we should continue to champion taking control of all our fisheries from this union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to reject the council position on north east atlantic arrangements because i believe the uk should have the sovereign right to govern its territorial waters without further eu interference.
in writing. – we supported rejection as these plans attempt to tie up arrangements in the north-east atlantic in a manner which is damaging to the interests of the uk after we leave the european union.
in writing. – we supported rejection as these plans attempt to tie up arrangements in the north east atlantic in a manner which is damaging to the interests of the uk after we leave the european union.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this report ending deep sea trawling, which strikes the right balance between measures to conserve and protect the seabed whilst not imposing overly complex and expensive burdens on the fishing industry.
in writing. ‒ we supported rejection as these plans attempt to tie up arrangements in the north east atlantic in a manner which is damaging to the interests of the uk after we leave the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on deep sea stocks and fishing in international waters in the north-east atlantic to protect vulnerable ecosystems from destructive fishing practices and overfishing. wales has a unique and treasured coastline and protecting our natural assets is essential to our economy as well as our environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is an improvement in fishing policy which seeks to help preserve fish stocks and mitigate the damage being done by deep sea trawlers. i am especially pleased to see a tightening of control measures which will hopefully ensure that all fishermen, from all member states, are following the same rules. these new rules strike the right balance between protection methods, without adding an extra level of complexity and burdens on the industry.
in writing. ‒ i supported a rejection of this recommendation as these plans attempt to tie up arrangements in the north east atlantic in a manner which is damaging to the interests of the uk after we leave the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given it simplifies the system currently in place for managing deep-sea stocks and fishing in international waters and allows us to take action to stop destructive impact of bottom trawls.
in writing. ‒ today i voted to support this compromise text on deep-sea fishing in the north-east atlantic which is in line with the principles of the new basic regulation/cfp reform. it also ensures conditions for preventing significant adverse impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems, establishes specific sanctions, better conditions for improving data collection and stronger transparency rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it is in line with the principles of the new basic regulation / cfp reform and ensures conditions for preventing significant adverse impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it simplifies the current management system, currently subject to a double instrument, and it is important we take action now to stop the destructive impact of bottom trawls.
in writing. ‒ we supported rejection as these plans attempt to tie up arrangements in the north-east atlantic in a manner which is damaging to the interests of the uk after we leave the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rejection amendment. we tabled this rejection amendment as the eu should not be involved in the north sea. without our amendment this would have passed without a vote.
in writing. ‒ today i voted to support this compromise text on deep-sea fishing in the north-east atlantic which is in line with the principles of the new basic regulation/cfp reform. it also ensures conditions for preventing significant adverse impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems, establishes specific sanctions, better conditions for improving data collection and stronger transparency rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution which represents a fair and balanced compromise. it promotes the preservation of vulnerable seabeds, the protection of deep-sea species and the safeguarding of jobs that depend on this economic activity. with the introduction of the concept of footprint, deep-sea fisheries will now be restricted to areas already exploited in the past and prohibited under 800 metres of depth.
mr president, i did not support this report, i did not support the amendments to the rules of procedure. firstly, i think that the rules of the game should not be changed in the middle of an election period, that is, if the rules of procedure are to be changed, then for the next election period, so that it is clear to future members of parliament under what conditions the european parliament operates, and secondly, i do not agree with the way in which the individual rights of members have been restricted. in short, i do not see any rational reasons why the institution of oral explanations of vote should be restricted, for example, when this is one of the ways in which a member can tell his constituents what his position is and why he votes in a certain way in the european parliament. in my view, this will make it harder for members to explain their political views in the future and the european parliament may distance these rules from its constituents and further complicate the relationship between the brussels institutions and the citizens of the european union. so i think some changes are not good.
mr president, students of liberty will tell you that, throughout our history, there has been the ebb and flow and battle between the people trying to regain power from those who wish to control the people. they will tell you that, where the power is concentrated too much in the hands of those who lead us, then there will be problems with the people and often abuse of their lives. we can see what happened in cuba. we can see what happened in cambodia or china or the soviet union. mr corbyn’s party has a member here, from the labour party, who wants to institute his own constitutional manipulation of this house. now he is not a communist and he does not come from those countries, but he comes from a party that supports cuban leaders, supports people who were in the soviet union, and supported those who believed that the power of the people should be suppressed by the power of organisations. these changes to this house will ensure that this continues, but i believe that many more people will want to leave the european union on the basis of it.
mr president, now in the past few months i have sat on the committee that produced this report and i have witnessed the final stages of the work which has been done and which we voted on this morning, supposedly to make the parliament function better for the states that wish to remain members of the european union and be governed by the body in the years to come. now if the people of the united kingdom had not voted to leave the european union on 23 june there would have been a number of clauses that i would have voted against or wanted amended today. however, i chose to abstain almost constantly throughout and only voted against at the very end since i do not believe in more europe, i do not believe in more eu control, and i felt the report was fundamentally flawed. there was a request right at the beginning to defer this report and to send it back to committee, and it is a very great shame that that request was ignored.
mr president, may i start by thanking all colleagues for those comments. but let me also reiterate that this report was two years in preparation through a working group in which every single political group was present and participated constructively in this, before it even went for public discussion in the committee and public discussion and vote in this house. very high majorities – extremely high majorities – backed the key changes proposed in this report. so i sometimes wonder whether those who now claim that this is a great conspiracy, some sort of coup d'état – as one of our colleagues from over there claimed – or that this is some great manipulation, have actually read what is in the report or whether they are just posturing for some segment of public opinion back in their home country. those who really do care, mr woolfe, about concentrations of power should stand up for an effective, efficient and transparent parliament, a pluralistic parliament that is able to stand up for pluralism in the european union, for scrutiny of the executive, and for holding the other european institutions to account. that is what this report is about. it is about making our parliament clearer, more transparent and more effective in doing its work. let me finish with one thing, mr president. if britain does indeed go ahead and leave the european union, then let it not be said that british members have not contributed to making this parliament an effective, vibrant parliament able to act on behalf of the citizens that send us here.
in writing. ‒ in a democratic parliament, the rules of procedure should play a vital role in ensuring transparency and fairness. it is important that these principles should exist across the european parliament, and i therefore voted for any amendment that brought about more transparency and voted against any amendment that looked to remove it. those amendments which would have provided greater fairness and balance between the political groups were also worthy of support.
in writing. – ukip could not vote for this report. there were elements of the report that did not allow for representation by all the groups of parliament. furthermore, we could not vote for a report that would allow legislation to be fast-tracked without following the due procedure for scrutiny.
in writing. – ukip could not vote for this report. there were elements of the report that did not allow for representation by all the groups of parliament. furthermore, we could not vote for a report that would allow legislation to be fast-tracked without following the due procedure for scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to vote in favour of a report that was seeking to abolish written declarations and limit the number of oral explanations of vote members can make. these are both tools which offer a voice to backbenchers in the parliament and are an important part of the legitimate democracy of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ ukip could not vote for this report. there were elements of the report that did not allow for representation by all the groups of parliament. furthermore, we could not vote for a report that would allow legislation to be fast-tracked without following the due procedure for scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it will give my constituents in wales more information on how parliament works and will also make it more effective. i supported amendments by my group to strengthen the transparency and gender mainstreaming proposals.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for this report. there were elements of the report that did not allow for representation by all the groups of parliament. furthermore, i could not vote for a report that would allow legislation to be fast-tracked without following the due procedure for scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which includes important reforms to make the european parliament more transparent, efficient and ready to listen to european citizens. this report crucially allows us to take significant steps forward on transparency: meps will be banned from taking a paid lobbying job during their mandate, and after they step down, their privileges as ex-meps – such as having free access to parliament – will be denied if they become lobbyists after their mandate. another key measure is the imposition of stronger sanctions against anyone making defamatory or xenophobic statements in plenary.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the general revision of parliament’s rules of procedure as this is a reform which makes the european parliament more transparent, efficient and ready to listen to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which makes the european parliament more transparent, efficient and ready to listen to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the changes to the european parliament’s rules of procedure, which was led by my labour colleague richard corbett mep, as it will make the european parliament more transparent and clamps down on meps having second jobs as lobbyists.
in writing. ‒ i welcome these reforms, which make the european parliament more transparent, efficient and ready to listen to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ ukip could not vote for this report. there were elements of the report that did not allow for representation by all the groups of parliament. furthermore, we could not vote for a report that would allow legislation to be fast-tracked without following the due procedure for scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ this was a long report with lots of votes on individual amendments. i voted in favour of anything that increased transparency. however i voted against the report as a whole as i do not see most of this report as necessary.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the general revision of parliament’s rules of procedure as this is a reform which makes the european parliament more transparent, efficient and ready to listen to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these reforms, which make the european parliament more transparent, efficient and ready to listen to european citizens. the proposals, which were drawn up by a working group including all political groups, will increase public visibility of important legislative votes, as they will ban committees from embarking on negotiations with other institutions without this being accepted by parliament as a whole. the report also includes measures to enable groups to propose current affairs debates, tougher penalties for racist and defamatory language or behaviour, and provisions for implementing the 13 april 2016 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my labour colleague richard corbett as it promotes a set of key reforms to improve democracy, transparency and efficiency in the work of the european parliament. the revision of the european parliament’s rules of procedure includes among other things more transparency and greater safeguards in first-reading agreements, a ban on meps having second paid jobs as lobbyists, and strengthened sanctions for anyone making defamatory or xenophobic statements in plenary.
in writing. ‒ whilst i am a strong advocate for ensuring fundamental rights for all, i do not believe further eu interference on this issue is the best way forward. national governments within europe will always be the best way to enhance and protect rights without additional eu bureaucracy and unnecessary legislation. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip strongly supports equal rights for all genders, races and sexualities. we also support the condemnation of crimes such as violence, child abuse and human trafficking. that being said, however, we reject the attempts to politicise this report in favour of eu charters, bodies and institutions. in particular, we reject the concerns in this report of the rise of euroscepticism across europe.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip strongly supports equal rights for all genders, races and sexualities. we also support the condemnation of crimes such as violence, child abuse and human trafficking. that being said, however, we reject the attempts to politicise this report in favour of eu charters, bodies and institutions. in particular, we reject the concerns in this report of the rise of euroscepticism across europe.
in writing. ‒ i and my conservative colleagues fully support fundamental rights and equality. however, a number of suggestions contained within this report go very far beyond the competences of the eu. for this reason i choose to abstain on this.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip strongly supports equal rights for all genders, races and sexualities. we also support the condemnation of crimes such as violence, child abuse and human trafficking. that being said, however, we reject the attempts to politicise this report in favour of eu charters, bodies and institutions. in particular, we reject the concerns in this report of the rise of euroscepticism across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu 2015. this report is an annual exercise covering developments in the field of fundamental rights in eu member states and contains suggestions for improvements. the eu should deal with all violations of fundamental rights, and it is important to my constituents in wales that we do all we can to improve things both at home within the eu, and further afield.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this non-legislative report. i strongly support equal rights for all genders, races and sexualities. i also support the condemnation of crimes such as violence, child abuse and human trafficking. that being said, however, i reject the attempts to politicise this report in favour of eu charters, bodies and institutions. in particular, i reject the concerns in this report of the rise of euroscepticism across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which identifies key areas of concern in relation to the situation of fundamental rights. against the backdrop of significant increases in hate crime, it is essential that efforts are made at eu, national and local level to counter extremism and promote respect for diversity. it is important that member states work together and uphold solidarity by tackling areas of common interest to strengthen democracy and fundamental rights across the eu.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which is based on principles of decency and equality. it covers important questions such as those pertaining to: the rule of law; migration, integration and social inclusion; freedom and security; trafficking in human beings; combating discrimination, xenophobia, hate crime and hate speech; women’s rights and violence against women; children; rights of minorities; rights of people with disabilities; roma rights; lgbti rights; and citizenship. it is vital to continue fighting for principles of decency and equality and not to accept any form of discrimination against any of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which identifies key areas of concern in relation to the situation of fundamental rights. against a backdrop of significant increases in hate crime, it is essential that efforts are made at eu, national and local level to counter extremism and promote respect for diversity. it is important that member states work together and uphold solidarity by tackling areas of common interest to strengthen democracy and fundamental rights across the eu.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report, which identifies key areas of concern in relation to the situation of fundamental rights. against the backdrop of significant increases in hate crime, it is essential that efforts are made at eu, national and local level to counter extremism and promote respect for diversity. it is important that member states work together and uphold solidarity by tackling areas of common interest to strengthen democracy and fundamental rights across the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this non-legislative report. ukip strongly supports equal rights for all genders, races and sexualities. we also support the condemnation of crimes such as violence, child abuse and human trafficking. that being said, however, we reject the attempts to politicise this report in favour of eu charters, bodies and institutions. in particular, we reject the concerns in this report of the rise of euroscepticism across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i do not believe the eu should be getting involved in member states’ civil liberty law.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which is based on principles of decency and equality. it covers important questions such as those pertaining to the rule of law, migration, integration and social inclusion, freedom and security, trafficking in human beings, combating discrimination, xenophobia, hate crime and hate speech, women’s rights and violence against women, children, rights of minorities, rights of people with disabilities, roma rights, lgbti rights, and citizenship. it is vital to continue fighting for principles of decency and equality and not to accept any form of discrimination against any of our citizens
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which identifies key areas of concern in relation to the situation of fundamental rights. against the backdrop of significant increases in hate crime, it is essential that efforts are made at eu, national and local level to counter extremism and promote respect for diversity. it is important that member states work together and uphold solidarity by tackling areas of common interest to strengthen democracy and fundamental rights across the eu.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report, which identifies key areas of concern in relation to the situation of fundamental rights. against a backdrop of significant increases in hate crime (particularly in the uk before, during and after the referendum) it is essential that efforts are made at eu, national and local level to counter extremism and promote respect for diversity. it is important that member states work together and uphold solidarity by tackling areas of common interest to strengthen democracy and fundamental rights across the eu.
mr president, the united kingdom is a place where, thankfully, cultural and new technology businesses are able to thrive and grow. we see it all over the place, in manchester, in london, and across our country. we have people at home with their own small businesses, and through that we have created jobs, we have created wealth, and we have created a spirit of business within those small businesses. but here in the european union, for the past several years, we have seen new rules being created every day. and today, another report that either picks or chooses the winners that it wants to survive, or creates problems for those that are already in business. many of those small businesses at home suffered the inequity of having to try and find ways of paying vat in every country that we had. all i have said simply, time and time again to this place is: stop putting your hands into the problems of business; stay away. if you do, it will grow. remove the regulations and allow small businesses to thrive in culture and in new technology.
in writing. ‒ this report tries to legislate on the culture and creative industries of every country within the eu with a ‘one-size-fits-all’ package. we have seen, time and time again, that this approach does not work. member states are best placed to protect, preserve and promote their own culture; therefore, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative report on a coherent eu policy for cultural and creative industries. we do not think that cultures in europe would benefit from new eu measures and policies in this field. we believe that each member state should have the right to decide independently on how to preserve and promote its culture.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative report on a coherent eu policy for cultural and creative industries. we do not think that cultures in europe would benefit from new eu measures and policies in this field. we believe that each member state should have the right to decide independently on how to preserve and promote its culture.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this report which represents a supportive policy framework that can help cultural and creative industries deliver jobs and growth. i believe an eu policy framework for the cultural and creative industries must support, not burden, small business.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report on a coherent eu policy for cultural and creative industries. we do not think that cultures in europe would benefit from new eu measures and policies in this field. we believe that each member state should have the right to decide independently on how to preserve and promote its culture.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on this report as it did not address intellectual property rights effectively. the creative industries in wales are an important sector for both culture and the economy and i do not feel this own-initiative report does enough to protect their interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative report on a coherent eu policy for cultural and creative industries. i do not think that cultures in europe would benefit from new eu measures and policies in this field. i believe that each member state should have the right to decide independently on how to preserve and promote its culture.
in writing. ‒ the creative economy across the uk employs nearly 3 million people and it has been one of the most resilient sectors during the economic crisis. i voted in favour of this report which calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative package that deals with precarious contractual situations in the cultural and creative industries and will ensure respect for fundamental social and labour standards.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report as i believe that that the eu could take a leading role in promoting the important positive impact that the creative sectors have across europe, and promote policies that champion europe’s most unique asset: its culture. the creative economy across the uk employs nearly three million people and it has been one of the most resilient sectors during the economic crisis. the report calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative package that deals with precarious contractual situations in the cultural and creative industries and will ensure respect for fundamental social and labour standards. the commission is called on to act appropriately to reduce the value gap and ensure that authors, creators, performers and rights holders receive fair remuneration for their works.
in writing. ‒ the creative economy across the uk employs nearly 3 million people and it has been one of the most resilient sectors during the economic crisis. the report calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative package that deals with precarious contractual situations in the cultural and creative industries and will ensure respect for fundamental social and labour standards. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the creative economy across the uk employs nearly 3 million people and it has been one of the most resilient sectors during the economic crisis. the report calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative package that deals with precarious contractual situations in the cultural and creative industries and will ensure respect for fundamental social and labour standards. the commission is called on to act appropriately to reduce the value gap and ensure that authors, creators, performers and rights holders receive fair remuneration for their works. i therefore voted in favour of this report as i believe that that the eu could take a leading role in promoting the important positive impact that the creative sectors have across europe, and promote policies that champion europe’s most unique asset: its culture.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative report on a coherent eu policy for cultural and creative industries. we do not think that cultures in europe would benefit from new eu measures and policies in this field. we believe that each member state should have the right to decide independently on how to preserve and promote its culture.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i vote against all new eu law, i do not think individual cultures would benefit from an eu culture directive.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report as i believe that that the eu could take a leading role in promoting the important positive impact that the creative sectors have across europe, and promote policies that champion europe’s most unique asset: its culture. the creative economy across the uk employs nearly three million people and it has been one of the most resilient sectors during the economic crisis. the report calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative package that deals with precarious contractual situations in the cultural and creative industries and will ensure respect for fundamental social and labour standards. the commission is called on to act appropriately to reduce the value gap and ensure that authors, creators, performers and rights holders receive fair remuneration for their works.
in writing. ‒ the creative economy across the uk employs nearly three million people and it has been one of the most resilient sectors during the economic crisis. the report calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative package that deals with precarious contractual situations in the cultural and creative industries and will ensure respect for fundamental social and labour standards. the commission is called to act appropriately to reduce the value gap and ensure that authors, creators, performers and rights holders receive fair remuneration for their works. i therefore voted in favour of this report as i believe that that the eu could take a leading role in promoting the important positive impact that the creative sectors have across europe.
in writing. ‒ the creative economy across the uk employs nearly 3 million people and it has been one of the most resilient sectors during the economic crisis, indeed growing whilst other sectors shrank. the report calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative package that deals with precarious contractual situations in the cultural and creative industries and will ensure respect for fundamental social and labour standards. the commission is called on to act appropriately to reduce the value gap and ensure that authors, creators, performers and rights holders receive fair remuneration for their works. i therefore voted in favour of this report as i believe that that the eu could take a leading role in promoting the important positive impact that the creative sectors have across europe, and promote policies that champion europe’s most unique asset: its culture.
in writing. ‒ whilst i strongly support women’s rights and welcome criticism of countries that are lagging behind with women’s rights legislation, this report at the same time calls for yet more eu legislation and yet more powers to be taken away from member states. i firmly believe that individual member states are best placed to ensure that women’s rights are protected and enhanced, free from the burden of eu meddling. i voted to abstain on this report.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. ukip agreed with the sentiments of the report which condemned sexual violence, rape, trafficking, child labour, the lack of rights for lgbti and discrimination in these (non-eu) eastern european countries. however we could not support legitimising and expanding eu action on the international stage. the report called for gender quotas in politics; expansion of eu programmes and funding through erasmus and horizon2020 to these countries; and greater involvement of eu agencies in these countries. these issues should be addressed bilaterally between elected national governments, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. ukip agreed with the sentiments of the report which condemned sexual violence, rape, trafficking, child labour, the lack of rights for lgbti and discrimination in these (non-eu) eastern european countries. however we could not support legitimising and expanding eu action on the international stage. the report called for gender quotas in politics; expansion of eu programmes and funding through erasmus and horizon2020 to these countries; and greater involvement of eu agencies in these countries. these issues should be addressed bilaterally between elected national governments, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support women’s rights across the european union and i was therefore pleased to vote in favour of a report which covers a range of important issues.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. ukip agreed with the sentiments of the report which condemned sexual violence, rape, trafficking, child labour, the lack of rights for lgbti and discrimination in these (non-eu) eastern european countries. however we could not support legitimising and expanding eu action on the international stage. the report called for gender quotas in politics; expansion of eu programmes and funding through erasmus and horizon2020 to these countries; and greater involvement of eu agencies in these countries. these issues should be addressed bilaterally between elected national governments, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. i agreed with the sentiments of the report which condemned sexual violence, rape, trafficking, child labour, the lack of rights for lgbti and discrimination in these (non-eu) eastern european countries. however, i could not support legitimising and expanding eu action on the international stage. the report called for gender quotas in politics; expansion of eu programmes and funding through erasmus and horizon2020 to these countries; and greater involvement of eu agencies in these countries. these issues should be addressed bilaterally between elected national governments, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is of critical importance that eu cooperation with the eastern partnership states dismantles damaging gender stereotypes. greater inclusion of women in the labour market, increased participation of women in political and public spheres, and expanding access to justice for those affected by gender-based violence will contribute to stability and increased economic prosperity in the eastern partnership states.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report as it is of critical importance that eu cooperation with the eastern partnership states dismantles damaging gender stereotypes. greater inclusion of women in the labour market, increased participation of women in political and public spheres, and expanding access to justice for those affected by gender-based violence will contribute to stability and increased economic prosperity in the eastern partnership states. stabilisation of its neighbourhood is central to the european union’s foreign policy; ensuring security, peace and prosperity and affirming women’s rights and freedoms is a vital part of this.
in writing. ‒ stabilisation of its neighbourhood and ensuring security are the key tenets of eu foreign policy instruments. peace, prosperity and affirming women’s rights and freedoms is a vital part of this. i voted in favour of this report as it is of critical importance that eu cooperation with the eastern partnership states dismantles damaging gender stereotypes. greater inclusion of women in the labour market, increased participation of women in political and public spheres, and expanding access to justice for those affected by gender-based violence will contribute to stability and increased economic prosperity in the eastern partnership states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is of critical importance that eu cooperation with the eastern partnership states dismantles damaging gender stereotypes. greater inclusion of women in the labour market, increased participation of women in political and public spheres, and expanding access to justice for those affected by gender-based violence will contribute to stability and increased economic prosperity in the eastern partnership states.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative, non-binding, own-initiative report. ukip agreed with the sentiments of the report which condemned sexual violence, rape, trafficking, child labour, the lack of rights for lgbti and discrimination in these (non-eu) eastern european countries. however we could not support legitimising and expanding eu action on the international stage. the report called for gender quotas in politics; expansion of eu programmes and funding through erasmus and horizon2020 to these countries; and greater involvement of eu agencies in these countries. these issues should be addressed bilaterally between elected national governments, not unaccountable eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because i do wish to see women’s rights advanced, i just do not think that the eu should be doing it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report as it is of critical importance that eu cooperation with the eastern partnership states dismantles damaging gender stereotypes. greater inclusion of women in the labour market, increased participation of women in political and public spheres, and expanding access to justice for those affected by gender-based violence will contribute to stability and increased economic prosperity in the eastern partnership states. stabilisation of its neighbourhood is central to the european union’s foreign policy; ensuring security, peace and prosperity and affirming women’s rights and freedoms is a vital part of this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is of critical importance that eu cooperation with the eastern partnership states dismantles damaging gender stereotypes. greater inclusion of women in the labour market, increased participation of women in political and public spheres, and expanding access to justice for those affected by gender-based violence will contribute to stability and increased economic prosperity in the eastern partnership states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which highlights the need to increase the participation of women in decision-making. i believe proper consideration must be given to the importance of empowering women in conflict resolution and peace-building in ukraine. women must take the lead in any post-conflict reconciliation mechanism that is set up. women and girls must be involved in building vibrant democratic civil societies across eastern partnership countries, especially women who are leaders and role models in the social, cultural and political spheres. programmes like erasmus+ and creative europe can be key cultural diplomacy tools fostering inter-cultural dialogue and civic engagement, bringing women and girls together for the benefit of their societies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we are constantly reminded in this parliament of the many atrocities and acts of human rights abuse that tragically occur throughout the world, such as in aleppo right now as i speak. only this morning, we heard the extremely moving testimonies of this year’s sakharov laureates, nadia murad and lamiya aji bashar, from the yazidi community. what they have experience under the brutal regime of isis is as evil an ideology as anybody could possibly imagine. these are personal stories, but they serve to illustrate the plight of millions of others who find themselves in similar circumstances across the globe. member states throughout the european union each enjoy their own histories and historical trajectories of course. they have each move from autocracies in the past to democracy today, enshrining the rights of all over the few, and developing legal systems that have delivered equality before the law, albeit in very different timeframes. these are the principles that have delivered the civil and political freedoms and protections that we all enjoy today, along with many other economic and social rights. these are the values of the european union, respect for human dignity and human rights, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law, freedom of the press and expression. it is important that we recall that it is these fundamental values and other institutions that deliver the peace and prosperity we all see in europe and the developed world today. it is also important that we continue to be a voice in advocating those values across other parts of the world, so we fully support the human rights report in the world as it is.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, as we discuss human rights, by virtue of my own romany gypsy heritage, i wish to highlight the issues facing our roma gypsy and traveller communities. anti-gypsyism is a worrying global trend and has even been described to me by a leading human rights campaigner as the last acceptable face of racism today. the time has come to act beyond the usual platitudes and lip service; real action must be taken at member state level. every week, news reports highlight increasing attacks against our rgt communities, including murders taking place only last month. that is how serious the issue has become. in my country, besides access to health care and education, there are many other issues facing our gypsy and traveller communities, not least the distinct shortage of both permanent and temporary stopping sites and a need for local authorities to live up to their legal obligations in this regard. last year’s wicked changes to planning legislation, legally redefining the legal personality of a traveller, would not have been allowed to happen to any other ethnic minority. our government should hold their heads in shame.
mr president, i want to first congratulate the rapporteur for this balanced and comprehensive report. last saturday was human rights day, celebrating the dignity and worth of every human being. today we heard the moving testimonies of the sakharov prize laureates and their extraordinary work for women affected by isis’ campaign of sexual violence. but we have so much more to do. today, there are reports in aleppo of civilians being killed on the spot, mass detentions and bodies abandoned in the street. there have been serious human rights violations against rohingya civilians, violations against civilians in occupied kashmir, and similarly attacks against coptic christians in egypt. it is a sad catalogue of suffering. we need to redouble our efforts to aid those who need it most and call for the perpetrators for those violations to be held to account in every possible forum. human rights are not a matter of derogation, instead they should become the strongest pillars in all external policies and relations of the european union.
mr president, there is no doubt that the situation of human rights in the world today is dire. as we speak, the assad regime is destroying what is left of besieged aleppo, reportedly massacring thousands of civilians. our thoughts and actions are with those suffering right now. we must also stand up and fight for the release of human rights defenders and political prisoners around the world. sadly, human rights defender nabeel rajab, seen here, is still in prison, whilst the bahraini government reviews his tweets. the european union, you, high representative, must demand his immediate release. in iran, uk-iranian citizen nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe has been imprisoned for unknown charges, separated from her baby daughter and her husband, richard. the uk government and eu diplomats must do more to secure her release. together with my colleagues i will continue to do what i can to ensure she comes home safely. and colleagues, i would urge all of you to take part in the annual amnesty international ‘write for rights’ campaign for the release of political prisoners.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, well, as you all pat yourselves on the back for creating a combined eu army, i for one am becoming increasingly concerned. with great military power comes great responsibility. while the eu describes itself as a diplomatic superpower, it is nothing of the kind. you only need to look at the mess the eu has created in turkey to see that this institution does not have the experience or the maturity to be a superpower. and with a superpower army must come a superpower defence budget. my question is who is going to pay? as part of brexit the british people voted to return the uk armed forces intact, free of the eu army. so i would be loath to see one penny of british taxpayers’ money being used to fund the eu’s new defence agenda. that is why i am calling for the uk to be exempt from all new spending in this area. the british people demand it.
madam president, i would like to applaud the high representative’s work on security and defence. the common set of proposals, approved last week, to implement the eu-nato joint declaration represents important steps forward. member states must have more ambition and sign up to a systematic effort to fill the eu’s foreign security and defence policy with a greater sense of purpose and urgency. many eu countries have become inward-looking and suspicious of european projects; this creates the tendency to respond to events rather than to shape them. a stronger, more robust policy is needed to promote a stable and prosperous neighbourhood. developing a new technology, or upgrading a military infrastructure, is a long-term process. that is why countries must start immediately, without wasting more time. we also need to strengthen the capacities of our neighbours and partners, because the security of our neighbours is also our security. if europe is to remain safe and secure, defence cooperation among member states and through partnership must become the norm.
madam president, i have to say that the concept of cooperation amongst eu member states is ridiculous when you only have to look at the frequent incursions. only yesterday there was another spanish naval incursion into gibraltarian waters. i have a consistent wariness of the development of eu common defence and foreign affairs. this place consistently talks about supporting and cooperating with nato. i call it undermining and replacing. why would we give up a tried and tested alliance system in nato in the name of an eu experiment? my belief is no better expressed than in this report. although member states make a spending commitment to nato of 2% of gdp, most do not, and it is only through accounting trickery that my own country does. the development of eu military ambitions directly challenges the neutral stance of sweden, the republic of ireland and austria. if the eu will not comprehend that, your ambitions for ever closer union at all levels are eventually bound to fail, but of course you will only blame someone else when that eventuality happens.
madam president, the cfsp and csdp have received a bad press in my country, the uk, where it is wrongly suggested that it will inevitably lead to an eu standing army aimed at undermining nato; mr carver is completely wrong on this. i take a more nuanced approach and i have always seen a complementary role for cooperation in foreign policy and defence at eu level. it was with this in mind that delivered cfsp’s origins after all, in so-called political cooperation in the 1986 european single act, as agreed by the then-uk prime minister, one mrs thatcher. for instance, eunavfor atalanta’s success has proved that there is a defence role for the eu that combines soft and hard power, without undermining nato, mr carver, whilst the sanctions regime employed against iran has illustrated that a cfsp common position can leverage our individual member states’ positions. as britain sadly leaves the european union, i believe that foreign security policy will be one of the key areas that we must remain plugged into. in possession of one of the world’s most effective armed forces, being one of the p5 on the security council and a nuclear power, the uk has a lot to offer the eu, particularly as our shared interests will remain the same post-brexit. as a member of nato, the berlin plus agreement will allow britain to easily contribute to any future cfdp missions and i hope that during the brexit negotiations, the eu 27 will see sense in finding a more formalised structured cfsp role for britain, given its close links to the continent and the ongoing common security interests. the uk, for instance, could bring more to the table by way of military assets in exchange, during the negotiations, for concessions elsewhere, such as better access to the single market.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being with us. i have been in this parliament since 2009. not so long, compared to some of you, but it seems longer sometimes and i cannot remember any point during this time when we have not been talking about at least one sector of agriculture being in crisis. price volatility has a big impact on agriculture, and it can lend itself to exacerbating these crises. as an industry, it is very difficult to take collective action to hedge or insure against the effects of volatility. the agricultural industry is made up of a myriad of players. unlike many other strategic industries, it does not have the structure to act together. traditionally, the cap has attempted to deal with this problem by market intervention measures and, as cap has been reformed, more emphasis and more budget has been given to direct payments to support farmers’ decoupled incomes, in some way trying to use that as a mechanism for riding volatility. but has this worked? i suggest not, as we have these continuing crises. this report lays out a number of tools that can be used, but frankly, i do not see that any of them are new. price intervention – not new; crisis reserve – not new; risk management tools and mutual funds in pillar 2 – that is not new, and the encouragement of producer organisations is not new either. that is not because we are all very dull people who cannot think of new things; it is because we really have tried most of the options available to us. these already exist. the report calls on further development of these tools and this is welcome, but what else can we do? there is no level playing field as member states have huge flexibility in how they apply pillar 2 support, but i do not think we should take that flexibility away. they also have huge differences in how much pillar 2 support they actually get. in order to redress these imbalances, the answer is not necessarily more money as suggested in a number of places in this report, but perhaps a complete review and reallocation of the cap funding based on today’s data and designed to tackle today’s problems, including price volatility. if we continue to work on a historic basis, we will be doing european agriculture a disservice, giving no incentive to move forward. my group believes that the best way to help farmers ride the rollercoaster of price volatility is to increase their efficiency and encourage their profitability.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, volatility is a fact of life in farming and we have seen this work to positive effect quite recently. the sugar beet price is going up; all the surplus beet that farmers produce in the uk this season will be paid for at the full price. next year there is going to be a higher price. for milk, the price is going up. it does work that way around. in october farmers sowed a wheat crop. in that month they had the opportunity to sell that crop for gbp 130 a tonne for the following november, 13 months later. they had that opportunity because of a futures market. they could also, by using a futures market, have bought an option to have sold their crop for gbp 130 per tonne; that would cost them gbp 7 per tonne. in other words, they were guaranteed a rock bottom price of gbp 123 per tonne. if the price was higher than that they could take it. but futures depend on speculation: one-third speculators, one-third producers, and one-third users of the commodity; it has to be in that ratio. but the eu, through its mifid legislation, is trying to get rid of the speculators. it is trying to de-speculate. if you de-speculate the futures market then you do not have a futures market and so the farmers cannot benefit. things sort themselves out. the potato futures market collapsed 20 or 30 years ago because it was over-speculated; this can happen. of course we have another tool and the commissioner did mention it: the annual farm payment, whatever you like to call it. in poor years, well, this is your prop – what you lean on. in good years, it is a chance to re-invest in your business. so the combination of futures markets and the single farm payment should keep most farmers going along pretty nicely. remember, farmers are businessmen, they are in there to take risks and make a good profit. they are not the employees of the state working on nationalised land.
blue-card question. – mr pittella, council, mr juncker, mr weber and all of you on that side, every one of you is going to mention aleppo. my group tried to put aleppo on the agenda this week to discuss in parliament. not one of you supported that. why didn't you?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, since 2010 we have had 45 summits – each one an opportunity to take the eu in a new direction. but how many times have we discussed the issues on this week’s agenda: migration, security, economy and youth unemployment? how many more times until we actually solve them? almost every summit seems to produce more of the same: words and declarations to keep the control set to auto-pilot whilst struggling to tackle both the internal and external challenges. the challenges of building the right environment for companies to create jobs. the challenge of keeping our citizens safe and secure. the challenge of sustaining living standards we have come to take for granted. but how? imagine you are a young person living in spain or greece with youth unemployment at over 40%. you want the opportunity to get a job, or at least an apprenticeship. you need the right economic conditions to allow businesses to create jobs for which you can apply. you dream of being able to build a better future for yourself, for your family and for your community. but what do we in this house offer? yes, we talk about the eu youth guarantee scheme that gianni pittella just spoke about. but here, in the european parliament, our proposed solution to all this is a free interrail pass. a great opportunity for middle—class kids who could afford it anyway, but not exactly the solution you are desperate for if you are struggling – like many of your neighbours – to find a job. is it any wonder that people are angry with us, angry at how out of touch we have become? should we then be surprised when they turn away from the mainstream political parties? the ecr group, made up of meps from 18 countries, wants to show that we understand people’s legitimate concerns. that we can work together, within the eu and with western allies. that we can offer the eu a new direction. it has happened before. the eu has begun to change direction on the migration and refugee crisis. we have finally started to recognise the importance of distinguishing between genuine refugees fleeing war and persecution and economic migrants who are bypassing the legal migration channels. and when the eu eventually moved towards an approach that the ecr and others have been calling for, what did we see? a crisis that is far from over, but which has become more manageable. so why don’t we try a new direction in a few more areas? on security, instead of thinking that we have all the solutions in brussels or in strasbourg, how about learning from what works in our local communities? learning from anti-radicalisation projects in london, aarhus or mechelen. learning from local jobs clubs and projects helping the long-term unemployed into work. learning from local projects that help refugees to integrate into their new surroundings in many towns and cities. and how about learning from what works in some of our countries? what about asking security agencies how we can improve their confidence in their counterparts in other countries, with whom they may be reluctant to share their hard gathered intelligence? how about creating jobs by cutting bureaucracy and liberalising employment laws? how about learning about integration from countries that have welcomed newcomers for centuries? inside this building, the talk is of the intrigue of who will be the next president of the european parliament. but step outside this building, and our voters will not be interested in that. they will be worrying about their jobs, their future and their ability to pay their bills. so in those few hours of the working lunch and the working session at this week’s leaders’ summit, let us hope that our leaders finally start to listen to the many alarms that have gone off in 2016. let us hope that our leaders address the legitimate concerns of our voters, and let us hope that our leaders chart a new course and set sail for a new direction. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – first of all, i would like to thank you for your question. i would also say how generous you are because you always apologise to me afterwards outside the chamber for asking me a question, so that is very polite. thank you. your first question is about travel. it’s all very well saying let’s give kids free interrail passes, but what the people actually want is the ability to have a job. they want a future, they want to think about themselves and their families. people want to work. with this gesture of giving a free interrail pass, quite often it is the wealthy middle class kids who can afford it anyway. they can afford the food; they can afford to travel; and all you are doing is saving them a few hundred euros on the ticket. you talked about brexit, but even though britain is leaving the eu, we are still right next door to each other. it doesn’t stop people traveling and intermingling. you don’t need political integration for people to travel and meet each other. we can in fact be more global in this way.
blue-card question. – mr putin is no angel. he locks up homosexuals and does all sorts of appalling things. mr assad is an equally appalling dictator, but the thing is that the middle east has instability because the west has undermined arab dictators. the real enemy in the middle east is not people like assad: the real enemy is fundamentalist theocracy. that is terrifying to the russians in their southern republics, but it is also terrifying to the european union with many cities with large muslim populations. do you not agree with me, mr verhofstadt, that this parliament is basically a bourgeois playpen, and is not giving the working class or the people of the middle east a decent break? it is just a lot of hot air for student radicals from the 1960s to air the contents of their stomachs.
blue-card question. – good morning, merry christmas, and also congratulations on your new role. there is a lot of passion about aleppo today. do you agree with me, first of all, that war is best avoided? the ways to avoid war would be first of all to stop crazy foreign interventions that are totally unnecessary, to stop the political posturing that pushes people like crazy tyrants in russia to the edge of having to respond, and that peace can be best achieved through strength – and strength is best achieved through nato, not some hare-brained scheme of european defence armies that will never work. they are absolutely preposterous, and thank god that they will never in future have uk troops in them.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, thank you and i hope we can all agree that 2016 has been a momentous – indeed historic – year. as it is christmas, let’s think of those events in terms of the three wise men bearing their gifts. first, we had the brexit deliverance; then we had the trump triumph; and then thirdly, of course, the italian rebellion. it’s just that in this case, the gifts were all the same: democracy and the rebirth of the nation state. i really think you had better listen, because i know in the past you’ve managed to ignore danish, dutch, irish and french referendums, but this time it is for real. a democratic revolution has begun. yet, when the 28 leaders of the eu countries meet tomorrow, i see no sign on the agenda of humility. i see no understanding of what has happened at all. in fact, what i see is the implementation plan of the eu global strategy on security and defence. in simple english: eu militarisation – the building of a european army. indeed, mr juncker used donald trump’s magnificent victory to say: ‘well that means that nato won’t be here anymore. we have to do this ourselves’. that is what you said, and this is a huge and dangerous error. trump is not a threat to nato. he wants it to be redefined, and he wants the members to pay their way. it is mr juncker who is a threat to nato. you can pretend today, if you like, that your military structure is going to run in parallel with nato, but those two structures cannot run together without being in direct conflict with each other. it was tony blair that first really worried me about this project when he said the rationale for the eu today is not peace, it’s about power. already we’ve seen that power exercised in terms of foreign policy in ukraine, where we have wantonly provoked russia – and we actually got rid of a democratically elected leader. you know, history is littered with conflicts caused by empires that seek to expand, and it’s about time the british government stood up tomorrow and said: enough. this is madness. we, as an independent united kingdom, will act as the bridge between america and the nation states of europe to make sure that nato is secure. i also hope tomorrow that we see the british prime minister stop dithering on brexit. it has been six months since we voted for our liberation, and at the minute we’re being dictated to by courts and european commissioners and told what we can and cannot do. i hope we do that, but i suspect we won’t, and i suspect the other 27 leaders will continue on the same course. that’s why you can all look forward to some even bigger traumatic shocks coming in 2017. it’s going to be, for nation-state democrats, a very happy new year. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, tony blair did his absolute best to politicise a civil service that had been made neutral by gladstone 140 years earlier. yes, of course it is true: we have some people sitting in judgment who have actively been engaged in the process of european unity, and they – in those specific cases – should have absented themselves. but the real point i am making is dithering. had the new prime minister triggered article 50 immediately, there would be no court cases. we would not have mr barnier talking down to us. we would be getting on with doing the best we can under article 50, though i am concerned – listening to your colleague, mr verhofstadt –that once we trigger article 50 it may become so unworkable that we simply have to say, ‘we’re going, goodbye!’
madam president, this is the third christmas i have celebrated here as an mep. whilst i watch members of this house enjoy lavish drinks receptions and parties, i think of the millions of european families who will have a different christmas caused by the eu’s failed policies, thinking, and the euro; one of unemployment, one of poverty, one of austerity. and whilst i supported britain’s vote to leave the european union, i will also be thinking of charles dickens’s three ghosts in his book a christmas carol. the ghost of christmas past was the british people’s yearning for a lost freedom and self-determination. i see the ghost of christmas present as brexit, a messenger of hope, and i glimpse the ghost of christmas future, where britain’s prosperity will be engaging with other countries across the world. i quote from dickens: ‘i will honour christmas in my heart, and try to keep it here all year’. i only wish the european union would do the same for its people, but nonetheless, merry christmas to you all.
madam president, tomorrow you should reflect on what a great year it has been for democracy: brexit, the election of mr trump, and the great work done by our austrian friends in their presidential elections. let us not forget the ukraine referendum in the netherlands and the ‘no’ vote against renzi in the italian referendum. and the best is yet to come. in the uk and in the usa, the people are taking back control. you hate referendums and would rather have them banned here. fortunately, we have an exciting year coming up, full of general elections. in march, we have the dutch elections where geert wilders is likely to become prime minister; in april, we have elections where marine le pen is likely to become president; and in september, the alternative für deutschland will continue its rise in germany. the people are rejecting your asylum and migration policies. they don’t want eu trade schemes; they don’t want eu armies, nor your obsession with gender and windmills. none of your plans will survive the coming years, because the peoples of europe have had enough. democracy will prevail. you condemn the populists, but you’re happy to consort with communists and extremists on the left. however, i wish you all a happy christmas and a very good new year.
mr president, i would like to congratulate you on your five-year term. i also rise under rule 11(2). mr verhofstadt, according to the financial report, has three jobs that pay him eur 1 000 to 5 000 per month and a further job that pays him eur 10 000 per month. so for mr verhofstadt, it is christmas every day. now we all know that mr verhofstadt is a master of the universe, a superman, but how can he do all these jobs and be the european parliament’s brexit negotiator? this does not respect the dignity of parliament and is incompatible with the dignity of parliament, as per rule 11(2). i must ask for a ruling on this. (applause from the right)
mr president, i know that this is your last day, and you and i have crossed swords on a number of occasions, but i must say that i am disappointed that you had to make a political joke out of a disability. my colleague, mr agnew, is hard of hearing and he does rely on his earphones. i felt it necessary to point out that the commissioner is speaking english, but obviously mr agnew has a need to use earphones. i think it is disappointing and i would expect better in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as the european union should have no right to dictate to member states what the criteria for insolvency proceedings should be or how insolvency practitioners should operate.
in writing. – ukip have voted against this because it is not for the eu to tell the uk or any other member state what the criteria would be for insolvency procedures and practitioners.
in writing. – ukip have voted against this because it is not for the eu to tell the uk or any other member state what the criteria would be for insolvency procedures and practitioners.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support the technical modifications to the proposed regulation, which makes changes to the lists of insolvency proceedings and practitioners in the legislation, and which underlines that the uk has chosen to opt in.
in writing. ‒ ukip have voted against this because it is not for the eu to tell the uk or any other member state what the criteria would be for insolvency procedures and practitioners.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners. this was a technical vote which introduced some amendments to an uncontroversial regulation. updating legislation and making the best laws possible are in the interests of my constituents in wales.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this report because it is not for the eu to tell the uk or any other member state what the criteria would be for insolvency procedures and practitioners.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the commission proposal is of a purely technical nature and contains no substantive change to the concerned regulation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report. in december 2015, poland notified the commission about a substantial reform of its domestic law on restructuring, which would take effect as of 1 january 2016. this involved a request for a modification of the lists set out in annexes a and b to the regulation as – according to article 1(1), to point (4) of article 2 and to recital (9) – national proceedings qualify as ‘insolvency proceedings’ in the context of the regulation only if they are listed in annex a thereto. the annexes to the regulation can be amended only by a regulation to be adopted following the ordinary legislative procedure under the legal base on which the original regulation was adopted. the commission examined whether the request from poland complied with the requirements of the regulation and submitted a proposal to the european parliament and to the council with a view to ensuring that the scope of the recast regulation will be adjusted to the actual legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation by the time of its application. the commission proposal is of a purely technical nature and contains no substantive change to the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the commission proposal is of a purely technical nature and contains no substantive change to the concerned regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report with a view to ensuring that the scope of the recast regulation will be adjusted to the current legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation by the time of its application.
in writing. ‒ ukip have voted against this because it is not for the eu to tell the uk or any other member state what the criteria would be for insolvency procedures and practitioners.
in writing. ‒ ukip have voted against this because it is not for the eu to tell the uk or any other member state what the criteria would be for insolvency procedures and practitioners.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report. in december 2015, poland notified the commission about a substantial reform of its domestic law on restructuring, which would take effect as of 1 january 2016. this involved a request for a modification of the lists set out in annexes a and b to the regulation as – according to article 1(1), to point (4) of article 2 and to recital (9) – national proceedings qualify as ‘insolvency proceedings’ in the context of the regulation only if they are listed in annex a thereto. the annexes to the regulation can be amended only by a regulation to be adopted following the ordinary legislative procedure under the legal base on which the original regulation was adopted. the commission examined whether the request from poland complied with the requirements of the regulation and submitted a proposal to the european parliament and to the council with a view to ensuring that the scope of the recast regulation will be adjusted to the actual legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation by the time of its application. the commission proposal is of a purely technical nature and contains no substantive change to the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i followed the whips’ recommendation to vote in favour of this motion, having insufficient personal knowledge of the situation to be able to consider doing otherwise. i note that uzbekistan has made genuine steps towards improving workers’ rights in recent years and that further trade deals will help to build a safer working environment in that country.
in writing. – after a vigorous debate, some ukip meps voted in favour whilst some abstained. we note uzbekistan’s significant improvement in the areas of concern, as evidenced by its ratification of multiple ilo conventions. we feel left wing ngos were calling for a rejection as a spiteful ideological response, rather than due to any meaningful attempt to help. some meps, whilst accepting uzbekistan’s improvement, abstained due to the principle that the eu should not conduct any law, anywhere, ever.
in writing. – after a vigorous debate, some ukip meps voted in favour whilst some abstained. we note uzbekistan’s significant improvement in the areas of concern, as evidenced by its ratification of multiple ilo conventions. we feel left-wing ngos were calling for a rejection as a spiteful ideological response, rather than due to any meaningful attempt to help. some meps, whilst accepting uzbekistan’s improvement, abstained due to the principle that the eu should not conduct any law, anywhere, ever.
in writing. ‒ i believe that giving consent for an agreement on bilateral trade in textiles with uzbekistan will constitute a positive sign of encouragement to the uzbek government to pursue much stronger efforts on the full eradication of child labour and all other forms of forced labour, as well as to further strengthen cooperation with the eu.
in writing. ‒ after a vigorous debate, some ukip meps voted in favour whilst some abstained. we note uzbekistan’s significant improvement in the areas of concern, as evidenced by its ratification of multiple ilo conventions. we feel left-wing ngos were calling for a rejection as a spiteful ideological response, rather than due to any meaningful attempt to help. some meps, whilst accepting uzbekistan’s improvement, abstained due to the principle that the eu should not conduct any law, anywhere, ever.
in writing. ‒ i voted against consent for an ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles, according to the wishes of students from wales who wanted to show solidarity with uzbek students. thousands of university students were forcibly mobilised by the government to pick cotton and threatened with expulsion from college if they refused. i oppose all forms of modern slavery.
in writing. ‒ after intense research i decided to vote for this recommendation. i note uzbekistan’s significant improvement in the areas of concern, as evidenced by its ratification of multiple ilo conventions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives consent to the textile protocol with uzbekistan. however, if the uzbek authorities fail to follow through on their commitment to abolish forced labour, parliament reserves the right to ask the commission and the council to activate articles 2 and 95 of the pca, allowing general or specific measures to be taken in the event of a failure to respect human rights.
in writing. ‒ today i have voted to support this resolution. uzbekistan has slowly but surely cooperated with not only the eu, but the ilo – allowing an unhindered inspection of the cotton harvest to take place for the last three years. they have also broadened ilo cooperation in a number of other areas. the ilo has reported significant progress, and although concerns remain about the use of adult labour, most monitoring reports state that uzbekistan has been cooperative in trying to do away with this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives consent to the textile protocol with uzbekistan. however, if commitments to abolish forced labour are not followed through, parliament reserves the right to ask the commission and the council to activate articles 2 and 95 of the pca, allowing general or specific measures to be taken in the event of a failure to respect human rights.
in writing. ‒ since the ep decided to withhold consent for this protocol in 2011, the uzbek government has slowly but surely cooperated with the eu and the ilo. the ilo has reported significant progress, including the abolition of forced child labour. there is still progress to be made, but the uzbek government has made important strides in the right direction. i therefore voted to give consent to this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as with the recent passing away of uzbekistan’s authoritarian leader islam karimov, the current period is seen as a valuable opportunity to develop deeper relations between the eu and uzbekistan and is part of its broader strategy in central asia.
in writing. ‒ after a vigorous debate, some ukip meps voted in favour whilst some abstained. we note uzbekistan’s significant improvement in the areas of concern, as evidenced by its ratification of multiple ilo conventions. we feel left-wing ngos were calling for a rejection as a spiteful ideological response, rather than due to any meaningful attempt to help. some meps, whilst accepting uzbekistan’s improvement, abstained due to the principle that the eu should not conduct any law, anywhere, ever.
in writing. ‒ today i have voted in favour of this draft recommendation for consent as we have seen fundamental changes in uzbekistan, doing away with child and forced labour and ushering in a new period of openness and cooperation. it is important to build on this in order to strengthen civil society.
in writing. ‒ with the recent passing away of uzbekistan’s authoritarian leader islam karimov, the current period is seen as a valuable opportunity to develop deeper relations between the eu and uzbekistan and is part of its broader strategy in central asia. labour meps voted in favour of the report as we believe that, in the context of the ongoing dialogue and cooperation, it is appropriate for parliament to give its consent to the textile protocol with uzbekistan. however, if the uzbek authorities fail to follow through on their commitment to abolish forced labour, parliament reserves the right to ask the commission and the council to activate articles 2 and 95 of the pca, allowing general or specific measures to be taken in the event of a failure to respect human rights.
in writing. ‒ i followed the whips’ recommendation to vote in favour of this motion, having insufficient personal knowledge of the situation to be able to consider doing otherwise. i note that uzbekistan has made genuine steps towards improving workers’ rights in recent years and that further trade deals will help build a safer working environment in that country.
in writing. – after a vigorous debate, some ukip meps voted in favour whilst some abstained. we note uzbekistan’s significant improvement in the areas of concern, as evidenced by its ratification of multiple ilo conventions. we feel left wing ngos were calling for a rejection as a spiteful ideological response, rather than due to any meaningful attempt to help. some meps, whilst accepting uzbekistan’s improvement, abstained due to the principle that the eu should not conduct any law, anywhere, ever.
in writing. – after a vigorous debate, some ukip meps voted in favour whilst some abstained. we note uzbekistan’s significant improvement in the areas of concern, as evidenced by its ratification of multiple ilo conventions. we feel left wing ngos were calling for a rejection as a spiteful ideological response, rather than due to any meaningful attempt to help. some meps, whilst accepting uzbekistan’s improvement, abstained due to the principle that the eu should not conduct any law, anywhere, ever.
in writing. ‒ after a vigorous debate, some ukip meps voted in favour whilst some abstained. we note uzbekistan’s significant improvement in the areas of concern, as evidenced by its ratification of multiple ilo conventions. we feel left wing ngos were calling for a rejection as a spiteful ideological response, rather than due to any meaningful attempt to help. some meps, whilst accepting uzbekistan’s improvement, abstained due to the principle that the eu should not conduct any law, anywhere, ever.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles, according to the wishes of students from wales who wanted to show solidarity with uzbek students. thousands of university students were forcibly mobilised by the government to pick cotton and threatened with expulsion from college if they refused. i oppose all forms of modern slavery.
in writing. ‒ after intense research i decided to vote for this recommendation. i note uzbekistan’s significant improvement in the areas of concern, as evidenced by its ratification of multiple ilo conventions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which accompanies the report granting consent to the eu—uzbekistan textiles protocol. this resolution crucially allows us to highlight areas where we expect further improvement, increased monitoring and effective implementation. amongst others, these include:– the possibility to suspend the protocol if the commitment to the abolition of forced labour is not lived up to;– monitoring of developments in uzbekistan and decision to organise a regular dialogue with the ilo, the commission, the eeas and other stakeholders aimed at the total eradication of forced labour in uzbekistan;– measures to encourages uzbekistan to work towards the ratification and effectively implementation of all 27 gsp+ core international conventions, in order to be able to apply for gsp+ tariff preferences;– a call on the commission to submit to parliament a legislative proposal for an effective traceability mechanism in the garment sector.
in writing. ‒ today i have voted to support this resolution. uzbekistan has slowly but surely cooperated with not only the eu, but the ilo – allowing an unhindered inspection of the cotton harvest to take place for the last three years. they have also broadened ilo cooperation in a number of other areas. the ilo has reported significant progress, and although concerns remain about the use of adult labour, most monitoring reports state that uzbekistan has been cooperative in trying to do away with this.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this resolution. in recent years uzbekistan has broadened ilo cooperation in a number of areas. in addition, this resolution allows us to highlight areas where we expect further improvement, increased monitoring and effective implementation.
in writing. ‒ this accompanying resolution envisages suspending the textiles protocol if commitments on forced labour are not lived up to, calls for continued monitoring of the situation, encourages uzbekistan to ratify and implement all 27 gsp+ conventions, as well as calling on the commission to propose legislation for an effective traceability mechanism in the garment sector. it is an important safeguard for labour rights in uzbekistan. i therefore supported this resolution accompanying the consent procedure to the textiles protocol.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as with the recent passing away of uzbekistan’s authoritarian leader, islam karimov, the current period is seen as a valuable opportunity to develop deeper relations between the eu and uzbekistan and is part of its broader strategy in central asia.
in writing. ‒ after a vigorous debate, some ukip meps voted in favour whilst some abstained. we note uzbekistan’s significant improvement in the areas of concern, as evidenced by its ratification of multiple ilo conventions. we feel left wing ngos were calling for a rejection as a spiteful ideological response, rather than due to any meaningful attempt to help. some meps, whilst accepting uzbekistan’s improvement, abstained due to the principle that the eu should not conduct any law, anywhere, ever.
in writing. ‒ today i have voted to support this resolution. uzbekistan has slowly but surely cooperated with not only the eu, but the ilo – allowing an unhindered inspection of the cotton harvest to take place for the last three years. they have also broadened ilo cooperation in a number of other areas. the ilo has reported significant progress, and although concerns remain about the use of adult labour, most monitoring reports state that uzbekistan has been cooperative in trying to do away with this.
in writing. ‒ with the recent passing away of uzbekistan’s authoritarian leader islam karimov, the current period is seen as a valuable opportunity to develop deeper relations between the eu and uzbekistan and is part of its broader strategy in central asia. labour meps voted in favour of the report as we believe that, in the context of the ongoing dialogue and cooperation, it is appropriate for parliament to give its consent to the textile protocol with uzbekistan. however, if the uzbek authorities fail to follow through on their commitment to abolish forced labour, parliament reserves the right to ask the commission and the council to activate articles 2 and 95 of the pca, allowing general or specific measures to be taken in the event of a failure to respect human rights.
in writing. ‒ this was simply a technical update on the progress of the agreement, and it is standard practice for ukip meps to abstain on such motions.
in writing. – ukip meps abstained on this, as it was a simple technical update to the fact that ecuador is now party to certain parts of this agreement. we did not feel a strong need to vote against this tidying—up exercise.
in writing. – ukip meps abstained on this, as it was a simple technical update to reflect the fact that ecuador is now party to certain parts of this agreement. we did not feel a strong need to vote against this tidying up exercise.
in writing. ‒ my party and i have always encouraged the quick and complete entry into force and implementation of this agreement. it will provide welcome new market access opportunities to uk firms in fast growing markets, as well as helping to cement deeper economic ties and strengthen the rules-based global trading system.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps abstained on this, as it was a simple technical update to reflect the fact that ecuador is now party to certain parts of this agreement. we did not feel a strong need to vote against this tidying up exercise.
in writing. ‒ i voted against giving consent to the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement because the accession agreement is not strong enough. it is important to my constituents that agreements with countries around the world are based on shared standards and firm commitments for improvement.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this recommendation as it was a simple technical update to reflect the fact that ecuador is now party to certain parts of this agreement. i did not feel a strong need to vote against this tidying-up exercise.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. the protocol establishes the necessary modifications to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru to take account of the accession of ecuador. the trade agreement establishes the conditions for eu economic operators to take full advantage of the opportunities and the emerging complementarities between our respective economies.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol. this proposal establishes the necessary modifications to the trade agreement to take account of the accession of ecuador.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol. this proposal implements the necessary modifications to the trade agreement to take account of the accession of ecuador.
in writing. ‒ this free trade agreement will not only boost trade between the eu and ecuador, but will also contribute to improving labour rights and environmental standards in the country through the provisions of the trade and sustainable development chapter. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it introduces several amendments to the commission proposals, in particular with respect to increased transparency, making the triggering of the stabilisation mechanism automatic beyond a certain threshold, and it also called on the commission and council in a draft joint declaration annex to the resolution to maintain the stabilisation mechanism beyond 2019 if ‘a serious deterioration in the state of the market or the situation of european producers is found to have occurred or is in danger of occurring’.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps abstained on this, as it was a simple technical update to reflect the fact that ecuador is now party to certain parts of this agreement. we did not feel a strong need to vote against this tidying up exercise
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, as i do not wish to see the eu manage our trade deals.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol. this proposal establishes the necessary modifications to the trade agreement to take account of the accession of ecuador.
in writing. ‒ this is legislative and talks heavily about the common fisheries policy, which i oppose as i believe member states should be in control of their own fishing waters. i therefore voted against.
in writing. – we oppose legislation which extends the discredited, unreformable common fisheries policy.
in writing. – we oppose legislation which extends the discredited, unreformable common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this report which aims to promote a political statement reminding norway that any customs duties on food products (including fisheries products) from the eu must conform to the eea agreement.
in writing. ‒ we oppose legislation which extends the discredited, unreformable common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-norway agreement on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak. the agreement retains the exclusive access to vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other’s waters outside four nautical miles from the baselines. it is important to my constituents in wales that the fisheries of the european union are managed effectively.
in writing. ‒ i oppose legislation which extends the discredited, impossible to reform common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ president, i supported this proposal, which is replacing a previous agreement that is not in conformity with international laws (law of the sea and un fish stock regulation). it is based on historical rights and will grant member state access to norwegian waters and reciprocal access for norway for danish and swedish waters, up to four nautical miles from baselines in skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this proposal, which is replacing a previous agreement not in conformity with international laws (law of the sea and un fish stock regulation). it is based on historical rights and will grant member state access to norwegian waters and reciprocal access for norway for danish and swedish waters up to four nautical miles from baselines in skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which is is based on historical rights and will grant member state access to norwegian waters and reciprocal access for norway for danish and swedish waters up to four nautical miles from baselines in skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ we oppose legislation which extends the discredited, unreformable common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not agree with the cfp.
in writing. ‒ today i voted to support this recommendation. the agreement ensures continued reciprocal access for the two member states and norway to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak area, whilst at the same time ensuring sound conservation and management measures for fisheries in the area. furthermore, it allows for control measures in harmony with the principles of normal coastal state jurisdiction, as is already the case for fisheries in the north sea.
in writing. ‒ whilst i am opposed to the common fisheries policy, this report highlights the importance of free trade, which is a vital component of a prosperous country. i therefore chose to support the whips’ position of abstention on the textual account of the resolution, whilst voting against the legislative report.
in writing. – we abstained as this is non-legislative and norway has chosen to agree it.
in writing. – we abstained as this is non—legislative and norway has chosen to agree it.
in writing. ‒ we abstained as this is non-legislative and norway has chosen to agree it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu-norway agreement on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak. the agreement retains the exclusive access to vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other’s waters outside four nautical miles from the baselines. it is important to my constituents in wales that the fisheries of the european union are managed effectively.
in writing. ‒ i abstained as this is non-legislative and norway has chosen to agree it.
in writing. ‒ president, i supported this proposal, which is replacing a previous agreement that is not in conformity with international laws (law of the sea and un fish stock regulation). it is based on historical rights and will grant member state access to norwegian waters and reciprocal access for norway for danish and swedish waters up to four nautical miles from baselines in skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted in favour of this report replacing a previous agreement which is not in conformity with international laws (law of the sea and un fish stock regulation). it ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the relevant laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in the skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this proposal, which is replacing a previous agreement that is not in conformity with international laws (law of the sea and un fish stock regulation). it is based on historical rights and will grant member state access to norwegian waters and reciprocal access for norway for danish and swedish waters, up to four nautical miles from baselines in skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which is based on historical rights and will grant member state access to norwegian waters and reciprocal access for norway for danish and swedish waters up to four nautical miles from baselines in skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ we abstained as this is non-legislative and norway has chosen to agree it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i do agree with free trade but not the eu organising it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report replacing a previous agreement which is not in conformity with international laws (law of the sea and un fish stock regulation). it ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the relevant laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in the skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ i am against europol and its influence over member states in the eu. this report aims to further promote europol and build ties with a third country, which will further erode uk national sovereignty. i therefore voted against.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip do no support europol as an institution and do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries.
in writing. – ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip do no support europol as an institution and do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between georgia and europol. i have long been supportive of europol and its work. the fight against serious crime and terrorism goes beyond the borders of the eu, and that international cooperation is essential.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip do no support europol as an institution and do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between georgia and europol. europol assists eu member states in combating organised crime in the european union. as organised crime does not stop at national borders, it is essential to have cooperation with non—eu countries and international organisations. better cooperation would have a positive impact on political, social economic integration in georgia itself. this agreement is in the interests of my constituents in wales.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this legislative report as i do not support europol as an institution and do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal, which concerns the approval of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and georgia, providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. georgia is increasingly relevant in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, more specifically since it is a transit country of so-called foreign fighters and a vital partner in the fight against georgian organised criminal groups.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, as there are clear operational needs for europol to deepen its cooperation with georgia. this strategic cooperation agreement with georgia would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement co-operation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as there are clear operational needs for europol to deepen its cooperation with georgia. this strategic cooperation agreement with georgia would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement co-operation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as there are clear operational needs for europol to deepen its cooperation with georgia. this strategic cooperation agreement with georgia would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement co-operation.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps have voted against this legislative report. ukip do no support europol as an institution and do not support the eu concluding agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not recognise europol.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, as there are clear operational needs for europol to deepen its cooperation with georgia. this strategic cooperation agreement with georgia would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement co-operation.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report as there are clear operational needs for europol to deepen its cooperation with georgia. this strategic cooperation agreement with georgia would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement co-operation.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case, at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of spain, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. – ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this proposal was to give eur 856,800 (60 % of the total) for 250 workers made redundant in spain, from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the 250 workers made redundant worked in the manufacturing of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers sector. the event giving rise to these redundancies was primarily the bankruptcy and closure of bosal s.a, a company operating in spain. the money will be used for things like information sessions, occupational guidance, job placement, training, commuting expenses, change of residence expenses, internet expenses, hiring benefit, start-up allowance, participation allowance etc. ukip opposes the eu using british taxpayer’s cash as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. – ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this proposal was to give eur 856,800 (60 % of the total) for 250 workers made redundant in spain, from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the 250 workers made redundant worked in the manufacturing of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers sector. the event giving rise to these redundancies was primarily the bankruptcy and closure of bosal s.a, a company operating in spain. the money will be used for things like information sessions, occupational guidance, job placement, training, commuting expenses, change of residence expenses, internet expenses, hiring benefit, start-up allowance, participation allowance etc. ukip opposes the eu using british taxpayer’s cash as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that eu expenditure is closely scrutinised on the basis of value for money and i do not believe the egf is an efficient tool that offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this proposal was to give eur 856,800 (60 % of the total) for 250 workers made redundant in spain, from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the 250 workers made redundant worked in the manufacturing of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers sector. the event giving rise to these redundancies was primarily the bankruptcy and closure of bosal s.a, a company operating in spain. the money will be used for things like information sessions, occupational guidance, job placement, training, commuting expenses, change of residence expenses, internet expenses, hiring benefit, start-up allowance, participation allowance etc. ukip opposes the eu using british taxpayer’s cash as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures, and so i voted in favour of this application. i regret that the uk government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as the globalisation adjustment fund is not a good use of taxpayers’ money. it is not an efficient tool for lowering unemployment and should not be used every time a company closes down or moves offshore.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this binding budgetary report. this proposal was to give eur 856,800 (60 % of the total) for 250 workers made redundant in spain, from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the 250 workers made redundant worked in the manufacturing of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers sector. the event giving rise to these redundancies was primarily the bankruptcy and closure of bosal s.a, a company operating in spain. the money will be used for things like information sessions, occupational guidance, job placement, training, commuting expenses, change of residence expenses, internet expenses, hiring benefit, start-up allowance, participation allowance etc. i oppose the eu using british taxpayer’s cash as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in spain, mainly in the region comunidad valenciana and the town sagunto. the application relates to 250 redundancies of the enterprise bosal s.a. in the town sagunto in spain, operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) during the reference period from 30 june 2015 to 30 march 2016.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this binding budgetary report. this proposal was to give eur 856,800 (60 % of the total) for 250 workers made redundant in spain, from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the 250 workers made redundant worked in the manufacturing of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers sector. the event giving rise to these redundancies was primarily the bankruptcy and closure of bosal s.a, a company operating in spain. the money will be used for things like information sessions, occupational guidance, job placement, training, commuting expenses, change of residence expenses, internet expenses, hiring benefit, start-up allowance, participation allowance etc. ukip opposes the eu using british taxpayer’s cash as dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as the uk does not receive this same fund.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in spain, mainly in the region comunidad valenciana and the town sagunto. the application relates to 250 redundancies of the enterprise bosal s.a. in the town sagunto in spain, operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) during the reference period from 30 june 2015 to 30 march 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to reject the council position because i do not believe further eu interference on railway use and the normalisation of transport systems is needed as each member state should decide how best to operate its own railway infrastructure.
in writing. – ukip voted for the rejection amendment in order to ensure that this part of the fourth railway package would not proceed. this report is part of three reports that constitute the fourth railway package and by voting to reject the second reading, we were trying to ensure that the fourth railway package did not go ahead and thus lead to governments of member states having their hands tied through the mandatory competitive tendering initiative of the commission.
in writing. – ukip voted for the rejection amendment in order to ensure that this part of the fourth railway package would not proceed. this report is part of three reports that constitute the fourth railway package, and by voting to reject the second reading we were trying to ensure that the fourth railway package did not go ahead and thus lead to governments of member states having their hands tied through the mandatory competitive tendering initiative of the commission.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for the rejection amendment in order to ensure that this part of the fourth railway package would not proceed. this report is part of three reports that constitute the fourth railway package, and by voting to reject the second reading we were trying to ensure that the fourth railway package did not go ahead and thus lead to governments of member states having their hands tied through the mandatory competitive tendering initiative of the commission.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the normalisation of accounts regulation. no member state in europe now uses this system so the legislation is outdated. this applies to wales, as elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the government of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal as it will compensate railway undertakings for the payment of obligations, which undertakings of other transport modes do not have to support.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for the rejection amendment in order to ensure that this part of the fourth railway package would not proceed. this report is part of three reports that constitute the fourth railway package, and by voting to reject the second reading we were trying to ensure that the fourth railway package did not go ahead and thus lead to governments of member states having their hands tied through the mandatory competitive tendering initiative of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as i wish to put a ‘spanner in the works’ of the eu fourth railway package.
in writing. ‒ european railways are in need of urgent modernisation and more competition in order for them to become a genuine alternative to road transport. while the technical aspects of the railway reform were already voted on a few months ago, today the european parliament voted on three reports addressing the political aspects. after three years of difficult negotiations between the parliament and the member states, socialists and democrats, including labour meps, decided to reject the compromise reached with the council on one of the reports, on the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services. during the negotiations, the council completely dismissed the demand by the european parliament to ensure the mandatory transfer of staff in cases of change of provider in the public sector. labour meps back railway modernisation, but not at the expense of workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to reject the council position, which was put forward by four political groups, as i do not believe that eu harmonisation of domestic passenger transport services is necessary. in particular, being a member from the united kingdom, i note that cross-border cooperation on such matters is extremely limited in scope and covers merely the border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland (which is covered under the good friday agreement) and the channel tunnel (which is covered by the le touquet treaty). therefore, this proposal is wholly unnecessary for the united kingdom.
in writing. – ukip voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the government of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. – ukip voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the government of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the government of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. – i voted against the report on pso regulation in the fourth railway package. the tendering process is not good enough and this does not improve it. many constituents in wales contacted me on this issue, voicing their concerns.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the government of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the compulsory opening-up of railway contracts across europe to private sector operators, as the new laws do not provide protection for rail workers’ terms and conditions when services are contracted out and also do not ensure good staffing standards on privately-run services. the pso regulation is part of the ‘political pillar’ of the 4th railway package. the political pillar essentially seeks to update existing legislation in order to mandate further ‘opening’ of the european rail market and expose more elements to competition. the new regime would apply in principle from the end of 2019, subject to some transitional protection.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the pso regulation which is part of the 4th railway package. as shown by our current rail crisis, too much emphasis on private operators running our railways is letting down train passengers. these new laws undermine fair terms and conditions for railway staff and staffing standards overall and will not benefit passengers. the regulations potentially conflict with labour party policy to bring rail franchises under public ownership. i am opposed to the mandatory competitive tendering of rail franchises which could prevent a future labour government from providing the best train services to my constituents across the east of england.
in writing. ‒ in the light of labour party policy on public ownership of rail, and the lack of protection in the ‘political pillar’ measures for staff when services are contracted-out, i voted against this proposal as it provides for a framework for rights of ‘open access’ to rail lines for commercial train operators, as well as reinforcing a default position of mandatory tendering of passenger service contracts.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the government of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the government of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and hat implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the compulsory opening-up of railway contracts across europe to private sector operators, as the new laws do not provide protection for rail workers’ terms and conditions when services are contracted out and also do not ensure good staffing standards on privately-run services. the pso regulation is part of the ‘political pillar’ of the 4th railway package. the political pillar essentially seeks to update existing legislation in order to mandate further ‘opening’ of the european rail market and expose more elements to competition. the new regime would apply in principle from the end of 2019, subject to some transitional protection.
in writing. ‒ european railways are in need of urgent modernisation and more competition in order for them to become a genuine alternative to road transport. while the technical aspects of the railway reform were already voted on a few months ago, today the european parliament voted on three reports addressing the political aspects. after three years of difficult negotiations between the parliament and the member states, socialists and democrats, including labour meps, decided to reject the compromise reached with the council on one of the reports, on the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services. during the negotiations, the council completely dismissed the demand by the european parliament to ensure the mandatory transfer of staff in cases of change of provider in the public sector. labour meps back railway modernisation, but not at the expense of workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to reject the council position, which was put forward by four political groups, as i do not believe that a single eu railway area is desirable for the united kingdom. in particular, being a member from the united kingdom, i note that cross-border cooperation on such matters is extremely limited in scope and covers merely the border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland (which is covered under the good friday agreement) and the channel tunnel (which is covered by the le touquet treaty). therefore this proposal is wholly unnecessary for the united kingdom.
in writing. – ukip voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the governments of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. – ukip voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the governments of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the governments of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. – i voted against the report on the governance directive as part of the political pillar of the fourth railway package. a key point is that it would allow eu rail companies to operate across the eu. plaid cymru – the party of wales believes railways must operate in the public interest and governments must be free to determine their ownership.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the governments of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the compulsory opening-up of railway contracts across europe to private sector operators, as the new laws do not provide protection for rail workers’ terms and conditions when services are contracted out and also do not ensure good staffing standards on privately-run services. the proposed directive is a highly ideological and unjustified restriction of the prerogative of member states to organise and run their railways. in addition, uk trade unions and the etf have always rejected market opening for so-called commercial rail passenger services, arguing that open access competition invites cherry—picking and jeopardises a good overall network offer of rail passenger services.
in writing. ‒ in the light of labour party policy on public ownership of rail, and the lack of protection in the ‘political pillar’ measures for staff when services are contracted-out, i voted against this proposal as it provides for a framework for rights of ‘open access’ to rail lines for commercial train operators, as well as reinforcing a default position of mandatory tendering of passenger service contracts.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the governments of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to reject the proposals at second reading on the fourth railway package because this would inevitably lead to the uk government and the governments of member states having their hands tied with regards to the awarding of competitive tenders. it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the compulsory opening-up of railway contracts across europe to private sector operators, as the new laws do not provide protection for rail workers’ terms and conditions when services are contracted out and also do not ensure good staffing standards on privately-run services. the proposed directive is a highly-ideological and unjustified restriction of the prerogative of member states to organise and run their railways. in addition, uk trade unions and the etf have always rejected market opening for so-called commercial rail passenger services, arguing that open access competition invites cherry picking and jeopardises a good overall network offer of rail passenger services.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the amendment of directive 2012/34/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 21 november 2012 establishing a single european railway area. the proposal conflicts with labour party policy to bring rail franchises into public ownership ‘as they expire’ and key demands to protect employment rights and social dialogue have not survived in the final versions of the text. in addition, it is not clear how this measure is compatible with article 106(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides that the application of competition rules should not obstruct the performance of the tasks entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ european railways are in need of urgent modernisation and more competition in order for them to become a genuine alternative to road transport. while the technical aspects of the railway reform were already voted on a few months ago, today the european parliament voted on three reports addressing the political aspects. after three years of difficult negotiations between parliament and the member states, socialists and democrats, including labour meps, decided to reject the compromise reached with the council on one of the reports, on the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services. during the negotiations, the council completely dismissed the demand by the european parliament to ensure the mandatory transfer of staff in cases of change of provider in the public sector. labour meps back railway modernisation, but not at the expense of workers.
madam president, the united kingdom did not request this inappropriate and unacceptable intrusion into the running of their ports, and i accordingly voted against the directive. after all, the uk is a maritime nation with a huge number of successful, efficient and effectively-run ports. it did not need another eu directive bringing about legislation, which will highlight why sovereign control of a major infrastructure project should stay with that government and that country and not be ceded to the european union. there are over 500 companies in the united kingdom – and indeed many of them are in the south—east region which i represent – which employ people in the port services. this legislation would do nothing to improve their lives and it would do nothing to improve the running of those ports. in fact, it would be very detrimental. when an eu decision actually hampers rather than enhances, the people who voted to leave the european union feel vindicated. i do wish the european union would take that on board because you complain all the time about driving people away from the european union concept and yet legislation like this achieves precisely that aim.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i do not believe the eu should have any say on how uk ports are operated. many of the ports located in the uk are privately owned and operated and this differs greatly to most ports within the eu. further ‘one size fits all’ legislation will have a damaging effect in the uk.
in writing. – ukip voted against this because the ports within the uk operate completely differently to the ports on mainland europe in that the majority of them are privately operated and it would be for the uk government to decide on the operating terms expected. this regulation is a further adoption from the eu of a one—size—fits—all policy that will just not work.
in writing. – ukip voted against this because the ports within the uk operate completely differently to the ports on mainland europe in that the majority of them are privately operated and it would be for the uk government to decide on the operating terms expected. this regulation is a further adoption from the eu of a one—size—fits—all policy that will just not work.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the ports within the uk operate completely differently to the ports on mainland europe in that the majority of them are privately operated and it would be for the uk government to decide on the operating terms expected. this regulation is a further adoption from the eu of a one size fits all policy that will just not work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on market access to port services because the report was too weak. i wanted stronger provisions for workers, for example. i also believe that in fact this would have no positive impact on welsh ports.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it will damage british ports. it is a prime example of the ‘one-size—fits—all’ approach of the commission that simply doesn’t work. british ports were privatised 30 years ago. this regulation will simply introduce a raft of regulations which will cost our ports money whilst adding nothing. additionally, it does nothing to address the vast amount of state aid that publically owned ports receive elsewhere in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because the ports within the uk operate completely differently to the ports on mainland europe in that the majority of them are privately operated and it would be for the uk government to decide on the operating terms expected. this regulation is a further adoption from the eu of a one size fits all policy that will just not work.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s proposal for a new port services regulation did not sufficiently recognise the complexity and diversity of the eu’s port sector. however, after negotiation and campaigning since 2013, the european parliament has managed to secure some limited improvements, including on respecting employment and trade union rights. the continuing success of the uk ports industry is vital to the country and there are major challenges ahead in the light of the brexit vote. labour meps will continue to work actively to support our ports and all who work in them.
in writing. ‒ today i voted to support this report. the commission’s proposal for a new port services regulation did not sufficiently recognise the complexity and diversity of the eu’s port sector. however, after negotiation and campaigning since 2013, the european parliament has managed to secure some limited improvements, including on respecting employment and trade union rights. the continuing success of the uk ports industry is vital to the country and there are major challenges ahead in the light of the brexit vote. labour meps will continue to work actively to support our ports and all who work in them.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s proposal for a new port services regulation did not sufficiently recognise the complexity and diversity of the eu’s port sector. however, after negotiation and campaigning since 2013, the european parliament has managed to secure some limited improvements, including on respecting employment and trade union rights. the continuing success of the uk ports industry is vital to the country and there are major challenges ahead in the light of the brexit vote. i, along with labour colleagues, will continue to work actively to support our ports and all who work in them.
in writing. ‒ since the commission’s proposal for a new port services regulation, members of the european parliament have managed to include improvements on employment, training and trade union rights, which is why i voted in favour of this report. i know that uk ports still have some concerns, and i will continue to listen carefully to the thoughtful contributions from major ports in the area including felixstowe, london gateway, harwich, tilbury, ipswich, king’s lynn and lowestoft. i hope that with proper implementation, the rules on transparency can work positively.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s proposal for a new port services regulation did not sufficiently recognise the complexity and diversity of the eu’s port sector. however, after negotiation and campaigning since 2013, the european parliament has managed to secure some limited improvements, including on respecting employment and trade union rights. the continuing success of the uk ports industry is vital to the country and there are major challenges ahead in the light of the brexit vote. labour meps will continue to work actively to support our ports and all who work in them.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the ports within the uk operate completely differently to the ports on mainland europe in that the majority of them are privately operated and it would be for the uk government to decide on the operating terms expected. this regulation is a further adoption from the eu of a one size fits all policy that will just not work.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this because the ports within the uk operate completely differently to the ports on mainland europe in that the majority of them are privately operated and it would be for the uk government to decide on the operating terms expected. this regulation is a further adoption from the eu of a one size fits all policy that will just not work.
in writing. ‒ today i voted to support this report. the commission’s proposal for a new port services regulation did not sufficiently recognise the complexity and diversity of the eu’s port sector. however, after negotiation and campaigning since 2013, the european parliament has managed to secure some limited improvements, including on respecting employment and trade union rights. the continuing success of the uk ports industry is vital to the country and there are major challenges ahead in the light of the brexit vote. labour meps will continue to work actively to support our ports and all who work in them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this transparency regulation which introduces a legal framework allowing, but not requiring, member states and port management bodies to impose certain minimum requirements, including insistence on compliance with social and labour law, as well as safety, security and environmental sustainability.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal for a new port services regulation did not sufficiently recognise the complexity and diversity of the eu's port sector. however, after negotiation and campaigning since 2013, the european parliament has managed to secure some limited improvements, including respecting employment and trade union rights. the continuing success of the uk ports industry is vital to the country and there are major challenges ahead in the light of the brexit vote. labour meps will continue to work actively to support our ports and all who work in them.
in writing. ‒ i believe all members of the court of auditors should be both experts and politically neutral. the appointment of juhan parts is clearly a political appointment given his extremely pro-eu stance and work to bring estonia into the eu. i have concerns over his ability to find and report errors and irregularities within eu finances so i therefore voted against.
in writing. – ukip voted against appointing juhan parts becoming a member of the court of auditors for estonia. ukip believes that members of the court of auditors should be independent experts and not political appointments. juhan parts is a sitting mp in the estonian parliament and was formerly the prime minister of estonia. as prime minister, he took estonia into the eu, which shows this is a political appointment. he is a pro-eu politician whom we cannot trust to criticise, uncover and expose the fraud and waste in the eu budget.
in writing. – ukip voted against appointing juhan parts becoming a member of the court of auditors for estonia. ukip believes that members of the court of auditors should be independent experts and not political appointments. juhan parts is a sitting mp in the estonian parliament and was formerly the prime minister of estonia. as prime minister, he took estonia into the eu, which shows this is a political appointment. he is a pro-eu politician whom we cannot trust to criticise, uncover and expose the fraud and waste in the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against appointing juhan parts becoming a member of the court of auditors for estonia. ukip believes that members of the court of auditors should be independent experts and not political appointments. juhan parts is a sitting mp in the estonian parliament and was formerly the prime minister of estonia. as prime minister, he took estonia into the eu, which shows this is a political appointment. he is a pro-eu politician whom we cannot trust to criticise, uncover and expose the fraud and waste in the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a very important institution. during the recent referendum debate, concern about how eu money is spent was a key issue in wales. therefore the members of the court must be properly qualified and their independence beyond doubt. i voted in favour because i am satisfied this is the case.
in writing. ‒ i voted against appointing juhan parts becoming a member of the court of auditors for estonia. i believe that members of the court of auditors should be independent experts and not political appointments. juhan parts is a sitting mp in the estonian parliament and was formerly the prime minister of estonia. as prime minister, he took estonia into the eu, which shows this is a political appointment. he is a pro-eu politician whom we cannot trust to criticise, uncover and expose the fraud and waste in the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts, former estonian prime minister and economy minister to the european court of auditors. mr parts has extensive experience and he gave a strong performance in his committee meeting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts, former estonian prime minister and economy minister, to the european court of auditors. mr parts has extensive experience and he gave a strong performance in his committee meeting.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against appointing juhan parts becoming a member of the court of auditors for estonia. ukip believes that members of the court of auditors should be independent experts and not political appointments. juhan parts is a sitting mp in the estonian parliament and was formerly the prime minister of estonia. as prime minister, he took estonia into the eu, which shows this is a political appointment. he is a pro-eu politician whom we cannot trust to criticise, uncover and expose the fraud and waste in the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this appointment. in my opinion, the court of auditors should be made up of independent professionals and not former prime ministers who are pro-eu. there are many professionals who have remained independent of politics that would be more suited to this non-political role.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts, former estonian prime minister and economic minister to the european court of auditors. mr parts has extensive experience and he gave a strong performance in his committee meeting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts, former estonian prime minister and economics minister, to the european court of auditors. mr parts has extensive experience and he gave a strong performance in his committee meeting.
in writing. ‒ this legislation will hand over more powers to the eu and increase interference in an area that should be controlled by eu member states. this report also comes with financial implications that will cost british taxpayers more money whilst we remain in the eu. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. – ukip voted against the legislative report on the adoption of the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and on the multiannual technical guidelines for this programme. we are against the financial implication of this eu programme and we believe that research in this field can be efficiently achieved at a national level.
in writing. – ukip voted against the legislative report on the adoption of the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and on the multiannual technical guidelines for this programme. we are against the financial implication of this eu programme and we believe that research in this field can be efficiently achieved at a national level.
in writing. ‒ i want to ensure that the coal and steel industry continues to benefit from the funds available under these dedicated research programmes. the fund has seen positive results in bringing together industrial partners, smes, leading research centres and universities across the eu and is intended to compliment, not duplicate, horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the legislative report on the adoption of the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and on the multiannual technical guidelines for this programme. we are against the financial implication of this eu programme and we believe that research in this field can be efficiently achieved at a national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal as the promotion of coal and other fossil fuels with eu funding is not in line with our priorities following the paris agreement. climate change is the biggest threat facing us, and i have worked with stop climate chaos cymru and others to get stronger international action.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the legislative report on the adoption of the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and on the multiannual technical guidelines for this programme. i am against the financial implication of this eu programme and i believe that research in this field can be efficiently achieved at a national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to amend the legal basis after the periodic assessment of its management rules, with a view to implementing the objectives of facilitating access to funding, ensuring due transparency and alignment with the commission’s rules on expert groups.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the legislative report on the adoption of the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and on the multiannual technical guidelines for this programme. we are against the financial implication of this eu programme and we believe that research in this field can be efficiently achieved at a national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i do not wish to see the eu spend uk taxpayers’ money on research. this should be done by our own parliament.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this proposal, the purpose of which is to amend the legal base after the periodical assessment of its management rules, with a view to implementing the objectives of facilitating access to funding, ensuring due transparency and alignment with the commission’s rules on expert groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal amending the legal basis of the research programme dedicated to the coal and steel sectors with a view to implementing the following objectives: ensuring transparent management of the programme; facilitating access to funding for beneficiaries with simplified rules and updating the provisions referred to in the legal basis concerning, in particular, comitology. the s&d group also pushed for the inclusion of an analysis of the impact of mining operations on employment of workers and on local communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it talks about further eu integration in areas such as defence, which is not an issue which should come up in a human rights report (or even at all, since the defence of the realm is the very definition of a sovereign matter). i note that the proposed solution to any crisis continues to be ‘more european union’ even when that it patently inappropriate or flies in the face of previous evidence of eu failure. however, i did support text which highlighted the dangers to persecuted christian minorities across the world, and specifically which noted the dangers to ancient communities in the middle east and north africa, and i voted accordingly on paragraph 148 of this report.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. whilst we fully support efforts to improve human rights and democracy, we cannot support eu activity in this or any other area. the vote on article 148(2) regarding christianity was un-whipped and each mep voted according to their own conscience.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. whilst we fully support efforts to improve human rights and democracy, we cannot support eu activity in this or any other area. the vote on article 148(2) regarding christianity was un-whipped and each mep voted according to their own conscience.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. whilst we fully support efforts to improve human rights and democracy, we cannot support eu activity in this or any other area. the vote on article 148(2) regarding christianity was un-whipped and each mep voted according to their own conscience.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. whilst we fully support efforts to improve human rights and democracy, we cannot support eu activity in this or any other area. the vote on article 148(2) regarding christianity was un-whipped and each mep voted according to their own conscience.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which has been adopted in response to the eu annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2015, approved by the european council on 20 june 2016. it underlines the fact that the universality of human rights is being seriously challenged in many parts of the world and that the eu should ensure coherence between its internal and external policies with regard to respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which has been adopted in response to the eu annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2015. however, we have so much more to do, and the eu should ensure coherence between its internal and external policies with regard to respect for human rights. with so many human rights violations still existing in the world, we need to redouble our efforts to aid those who need it most, and the perpetrators of those violations must be held to account in every possible forum.
in writing. ‒ this is an important response to the european council’s annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and highlights several global and regional challenges we face, particularly the rights of women, children, migrants, refugees, the lgbti community and indigenous peoples across the world. it is crucial that greater political be invested in creating long-term, comprehensive and coherent solutions to these dilemmas based on respected international human rights norms.
in writing. ‒ i approved the annual report on human rights and democracy, which raises the issue of human rights violations across the world. as a member of the european parliament’s subcommittee on human rights, i believe we should take a clear stand to defend our universal human rights worldwide, including for women and children, migrants, refugees, the lgbti community and indigenous peoples.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it takes stock of the human rights of women and children, migrants, refugees and asylum seekers, lgbti persons and indigenous people, and assesses how they are affected by counter-terrorism, trade or development measures. on migration, the urgent need for long-term and coherent solutions based on human rights is stressed, given the growing number of human rights abuses against refugees, irregular migrants and asylum seekers on their route to europe. on business and human rights, the rapporteur insists that human rights clauses should systematically be introduced in all international agreements, observing that these go hand in hand and that the business community has an important role to play in promoting human rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. whilst we fully support efforts to improve human rights and democracy, we cannot support eu activity in this or any other area. the vote on article 148(2) regarding christianity was un-whipped and each mep voted according to their own conscience.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, however there are certain elements of it that i agree with. christians are being persecuted in the middle east, especially by isis, and all nations should recognise this.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, which underlines that the universality of human rights is seriously being challenged in many parts of the world and that the eu should ensure coherence between its internal and external policies with regard to respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which underlines the fact that the universality of human rights is being seriously challenged in many parts of the world and that the eu should ensure coherence between its internal and external policies with regard to respect for human rights. the report is balanced and takes stock of the human rights of women and children, migrants, refugees and asylum seekers, lgbti persons and indigenous people, and assesses how they are affected by counter-terrorism, trade and development measures.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the situation of human rights in the world today is dire – as we voted on this report, the assad regime was destroying what was left of besieged aleppo, reportedly massacring thousands of civilians. my thoughts and actions are with those innocent people caught up in the conflict and suffering through no fault of their own. we must also stand up and fight for the release of human rights defenders and political prisoners around the world. the human rights defender nabeel rajab is still in prison whilst the bahraini government reviews his tweets. the european union, the higher representative, must demand his immediate release. in iran, uk—iranian citizen nazanin zagari-ratcliffe has been imprisoned for unknown charges, separated from her baby daughter and her husband richard. the uk government and eu diplomats must do more to secure her release. together with my colleagues, i will continue to do what i can to ensure she comes home safely.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to take further powers from eu member states and uses terms such as ‘diplomatic superpower’ to describe the eu on the world stage. this report is clearly a threat to the parliamentary sovereignty of the united kingdom and i therefore voted against. i further note that paragraph 20 of this report calls for a european union military headquarters, and question how those who tell the uk at domestic level that there are no plans for an eu army can possibly simultaneously support such a resolution when it comes before the european parliament.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. in particular, we rejected the self-congratulatory language referring to the eu as being one of the greatest achievements in european history and as a diplomatic superpower. we are concerned by proposed changes to the financial structures governing the cfsp and proposals for budgetary increases as this could affect the uk before we leave the eu.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. in particular, we rejected the self-congratulatory language referring to the eu as being one of the greatest achievements in european history and as a diplomatic superpower. we are concerned by proposed changes to the financial structures governing the cfsp and proposals for budgetary increases as this could affect the uk before we leave the eu.
in writing. ‒ while the eu's foreign and security policy can be an important means for advancing multilateral, shared concerns, i also believe that it must never replace a member state’s ability to conduct its own independent policies in these areas whenever it chooses to. i therefore abstained on this.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. in particular, we rejected the self-congratulatory language referring to the eu as being one of the greatest achievements in european history and as a diplomatic superpower. we are concerned by proposed changes to the financial structures governing cfsp and proposals for budgetary increases as this could affect the uk before we leave the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the implementation of the common foreign and security policy as i am opposed to the militarisation of the european union. i believe the eu could play an invaluable role on the world stage in conflict prevention. i am engaged in the campaign to establish a peace institute in wales which will help promote peace in our society and in our everyday lives. the eu should have its own peace institute to help develop a policy that would bring people real security.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. in particular, i rejected the self-congratulatory language referring to the eu as being one of the greatest achievements in european history and as a diplomatic superpower. i am concerned by proposed changes to the financial structures governing the cfsp and proposals for budgetary increases, as this could affect the uk before we leave the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on common foreign and security policy (cfsp), which addresses the most salient issues and developments pertaining to the cfsp over the last year and sets priorities for the future. it reflects the changing geopolitical context in which the eu operates: the prospect of brexit, trump’s election as the us president, growing challenges along the eu’s eastern and southern borders prompted by an aggressive russia. the report addresses these challenges by emphasising the need for a reinvigorated eu coordination. it also stresses the need for the eu to play a more active role in conflict resolution by using the leverage the eu has over all key regional players, such as turkey, saudi arabia and iran. last but not least, it underscores the importance of strengthening ties with strategic partners in asia.
in writing. ‒ today i voted to support this report, which addresses the most salient issues and developments pertaining to the cfsp over the last year. it also sets priorities for the future and reflects on the changing geopolitical context in which the eu operates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual report, which addresses the most salient issues and developments pertaining to the cfsp over the last year and sets priorities for the future. it reflects the changing geopolitical context in which the eu operates: brexit, trump’s election as the us president, growing challenges along the eu’s eastern and southern borders prompted by an aggressive russia. the report addresses these challenges by emphasising the need for a reinvigorated eu coordination, including decisive steps towards strengthening cooperation on defence. the report also stresses the need for the eu to play a more active role in conflict resolution by using the leverage the eu has over all key regional players, such as turkey, saudi arabia and iran.
in writing. ‒ given the changing geopolitical landscape the eu will now face in 2017 and beyond, an analysis of developments and priorities was crucial. i agree with the report’s emphasis on reinvigorated policy coordination among member states and the call for the eu to use its leverage with key regional actors, especially in the middle east, to play a greater role in conflict resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which addresses the most salient issues and developments pertaining to the cfsp over the last year and sets priorities for the future. it reflects the changing geopolitical context in which the eu operates: brexit, trump’s election as the us president, growing challenges along the eu’s eastern and southern borders prompted by an aggressive russia. the report addresses these challenges by emphasising the need for a reinvigorated eu coordination, including decisive steps towards strengthening cooperation on defence. the report also stresses the need for the eu to play a more active role in conflict resolution by using the leverage the eu has over all key regional players, such as turkey, saudi arabia and iran.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. in particular, we rejected the self-congratulatory language referring to the eu as being one of the greatest achievements in european history and as a diplomatic superpower. we are concerned by proposed changes to the financial structures governing the cfsp and proposals for budgetary increases, as this could affect the uk before we leave the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it calls for an eu army.
in writing. ‒ today i voted to support this report, which addresses the most salient issues and developments pertaining to the cfsp over the last year. it also sets priorities for the future and reflects on the changing geopolitical context in which the eu operates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it addresses the most salient issues and developments pertaining to the common foreign security policy over the last year and sets priorities for the future. it reflects the changing geopolitical context in which the eu operates and addresses these challenges by emphasising the need for a reinvigorated eu coordination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which reflects the changing geopolitical context in which the eu operates: brexit, trump’s election as the us president, growing challenges along the eu’s eastern and southern borders prompted by an aggressive russia and more. the report addresses these challenges by emphasising the need for a reinvigorated eu coordination process, including decisive steps towards strengthening cooperation on defence. the report also stresses the need for the eu to play a more active role in conflict resolution by using the leverage the eu has over all key regional players, such as turkey, saudi arabia and iran. however, the eu must remain above all a project of peace. in our common security and defence policy we must emphasise the need to refrain from selling arms to regimes which violate human rights and commit war crimes. the eu must always stand for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and nothing in our csdp should ever compromise those commitments. also, labour meps abstained or voted against recommendations on the defence union that offer ideas which could duplicate the work of nato.
in writing. ‒ this report demonstrates the lack of understanding the eu has on agricultural matters and continues to push for further eu interference that in my opinion is not needed and should be decided at a national level. i therefore voted against.
in writing. – we oppose this because the authors clearly do not know either what a market is or how one properly operates.
in writing. – we oppose this because the authors clearly do not know either what a market is or how one properly operates.
in writing. ‒ farming is central to the economy, yet further eu intervention in agricultural markets does nothing to ensure the sector is competitive, particularly as there are many measures available to member states under cap rules. this threatens to undermine recent cap reforms and to move us away from a cost effective subsidy system that encourages innovation and makes europe’s farmers globally competitive.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this because the authors clearly do not know either what a market is or how one properly operates.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on common agricultural policy tools to reduce price volatility. agriculture is a vital sector in wales and i want to ensure funding to develop rural areas is directed at rural areas.
in writing. ‒ i oppose this because the authors clearly do not know either what a market is or how one properly operates.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report, which responds to the rising challenge of price volatility in agricultural markets which undermines the livelihoods of many farmers, particularly tenants and smallholders, and can potentially threaten food security in the eu and beyond. the report offers a balanced view, critically assessing low effectiveness of traditional cap market intervention tools, while instead advocating stronger emphasis on improvement of farmers’ terms of trade, their position in the food supply chain, contractual relations with retailers and availability of risk management tools.
in writing. ‒ this report responds to the price volatility in agricultural markets that can threaten the financial security of smallholder farmers. i supported the report where it critically assessed current cap intervention methods and i support improving the terms of trade for farmers, for example, when they are dealing with the big supermarkets that buy their products. however, i voted against the parts of the report which seek to increase cap spending.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it responds to a rising challenge of price volatility in agricultural markets which undermines the livelihoods of many farmers, particularly tenants and smallholders, and can potentially threaten food security in the eu and beyond. the report offers a balanced view, critically assessing low effectiveness of traditional cap market intervention tools, while instead advocating stronger emphasis on improvement of farmers’ terms of trade, their position in the food supply chain, contractual relations with retailers and availability of risk management tools. however, i rejected three paragraphs explicitly advocating an increase in cap spending in areas related to market intervention.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as the eu should not be involved in uk agriculture.
in writing. ‒ today i have voted to support this report, which responds to the rising challenge of price volatility in agricultural markets, which undermines livelihoods of many farmers, particularly tenants and smallholders, and can potentially threaten food security in the eu and beyond. the report critically assesses the low effectiveness of traditional cap market intervention tools while instead advocating stronger emphasis on improvement of farmers’ terms of trade, their position in the food supply chain, contractual relations with retailers as well as availability of risk management tools.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it responds to a rising challenge of price volatility in agricultural markets which undermines the livelihoods of many farmers, particularly tenants and smallholders, and can potentially threaten food security in the eu and beyond. the report offers a balanced view, critically assessing low effectiveness of traditional cap market intervention tools, while instead advocating stronger emphasis on improvement of farmers’ terms of trade, their position in the food supply chain, contractual relations with retailers and availability of risk management tools.
in writing. ‒ the report adopted responds to a rising challenge of price volatility in agricultural markets which undermines the livelihoods of many farmers, particularly tenants and smallholders, and can potentially threaten food security in the eu and beyond. the report offers a balanced view, critically assessing low effectiveness of traditional cap market intervention tools, while instead advocating stronger emphasis on improvement of farmers’ terms of trade, their position in the food supply chain, contractual relations with retailers and availability of risk management tools. for this broad and inclusive policy view, i voted in favour of the report.
mr president, here we are again. yet another session, and yet another opportunity for this parliament to lecture poland, its people and its government on how to run a democracy. but when you try to lecture a government, especially one which won a democratic election with a large majority, you lecture not just the governing party, but also the people who voted for that governing party. no wonder people feel more detached than ever from brussels. the polish government needs no lecture from you guys on how to run a democracy; but the left, they like to give lectures on democracy while the hypocrisy blinds them to the authoritarian regimes that they have supported in the past. many on the left of this house kept silent or even supported soviet socialism. while members of the polish government and governing party fought for years to throw off the shackles of communism and oppression, and on the week of the 35th anniversary of invoking martial law in poland, this is fresh in our minds. it is very clear that whatever everyone's role is in this situation, it is outlined in the treaties. this house has no real role in this; it should be for the commission. the tone here, where we were supposed to be having a debate, seems to be undermining dialogue – it is just polarising. so often, members in this house refer to the treaties and call upon the commission to act in a fair and impartial way; yet so many are happy to throw that rule book out the window if it means cheap political points can be scored here in the parliament. add to that, the polish opposition parties that, having lost democratic elections at home, seek to attack their government in brussels and strasbourg – forgetting the fact that they packed the constitutional court when they were in power and did not follow international standards on media regulation, never missing the opportunity to play judge, jury and executioner. some here will argue that they are defending democracy and offering a helping hand, but that helping hand is starting to feel like a controlling fist. the tone of this debate and the ones before it is why some member states now feel less equal than others. that is why when it comes to this issue, many brave poles who fought against martial law are beginning to feel that in brussels it has a master rather than a partner. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – because what i see from you, sophie, is actually selective in your debate. many people here have talked about the istanbul convention and criticised poland for thinking of withdrawing from it – and i understand those concerns. but look at the istanbul convention. do you know, when you count the numbers, there are 14 members of the eu that have not ratified it? and yet you are hypocritical. you yourself, from your own country, are hypocritical, condemning the poles who have ratified it. you are the biggest hypocrite i have seen.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, yesterday in this parliament we heard from the two amazing sakharov prize winners, the young yazidi women who had escaped daesh. they described the situation of the first refugee camp they came to in iraqi kurdistan: overcrowded, unsanitary, lacking privacy, cold and insecure, and lacking medical care. they could have been describing many of the camps or reception centres, especially on the islands in greece. they said: we look up to europe as a symbol of humanity. well, we are really failing at the moment. if it were not for local people in many of these places, themselves often in dire need, the situation would be even worse. so how soon do we really believe that we are going to have adequate facilities in greece on the islands? should we not be immediately transferring asylum seekers, particularly those who are vulnerable, to mainland greece, ensuring they are adequately protected and also stepping up the relocation process? as others have said: the lack of will from some member states is pitiful. we should not be congratulating ourselves on the eu-turkey deal. we have no wish to see it as a stable and sustainable pillar of eu policy in its current state. when we are looking at questions about returns, we should also remember that 87% of those deemed irregular migrants actually come from the top ten refugee-producing countries of the world. so please, let us think about the solidarity and humanity.
mr president, i welcome the news that dublin transfers to greece will resume from march and that there has been a reduction in attempts to cross the aegean sea. this sends a positive signal that the system can work, under the rules will be adhered to fairly. every effort should be made to save lives, create stability in conflict regions, and assist member states overwhelmed by the challenges they face. but many in this parliament still believe that the solution lies in more forms of legal migration and binding quotas. i cannot support any relocation scheme that forces member states to take an allotted number of persons. any discussion of sanctions against member states can only weaken european cooperation and spread resentment. instead, member states need to continue to commit more resources and aid to countries in the middle east. we need efficient asylum processing and expedient returns. the one-for-one approach of the eu-turkey deal is neither a sustainable nor fair solution. instead, we need to work towards effective and fair cooperation with third countries.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this legislation is supposedly intended to ensure that visa liberalisation is not abused. it is supposed to ease the concerns of member states, those concerns being that visa-free access for ukraine and georgia will lead to another influx of migrants. this is quite reasonable, given that ukraine and georgia have a combined population of 45 million people, while the average income in georgia is gbp 320 per month and the average income in ukraine is gbp 160 per month. if visa-free access is agreed, many hundreds of thousands, or even perhaps millions of people, will come to europe and very many – visa or no visa – will not leave. these measures are in fact a pathway for the eu to conclude visa-free agreements with those countries. while the uk is not bound by this legislation, the ukip meps will oppose it.
mr president, thank you and colleagues have said what i wanted to concentrate on, which is that the rapporteur, agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, and colleagues worked on this file as best they could. the libe committee was locked into six months of very difficult debate with the other institutions. we maintained a position and we ended with the mechanism which speaks not only to dry procedure in relation to visas, but speaks to the hard work of this parliament in relating to countries. you can see georgians and ukrainians here in this parliament who are waiting to hear about the suspension mechanism, about the work that has been done in securing for them good news about the european union. i agree with what the commissioner has said and indeed other members of this house. the conclusions of these negotiations between the parliament and council have been one of the key priorities for our committee. i want to thank everyone who has been involved in this bid for visa-free travel and colleagues. sorry, president, i thought i had two minutes. no? just one minute. let me just thank the rapporteur again. thank you very much mr agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra. i conclude. (applause)
mr president, as someone rather unusually decorated by both ukraine and georgia for my services to those countries and their euro-atlantic aspirations, i of course warmly welcome the agreement for visa liberalisation to allow their citizens, for tourism and business purposes, to visit the european union schengen zone. both countries have waited for years and have made sacrifices by unilaterally lifting visa restrictions and fees on eu visitors with no reciprocity until now. of course there must be safeguards, including suspension mechanisms if the numbers are excessive or overstay abuses are evident. both european neighbouring countries deserve our warmest welcome, and in ukraine we must remember that many of their citizens have died for the freedoms that we take for granted here in the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it is unfortunate that europol mislaid some highly sensitive data on terrorism through human error. we’ve had similar experiences in britain with highly sensitive government information being left on trains and in the back of taxis. if only obtaining information from europol was always so easy. in october, i requested a copy of the joint interpol-europol report on migrant smuggling networks from europol and i was told i could not have it. my constituents in london might be surprised that i, as their mep and a member of the civil liberties, justice and home affairs committee, cannot see this important report – not even a redacted version with sensitive and investigation-specific information withheld. my constituents would quite rightly expect me to be able to see this report. i hope that europol will reconsider its decision and give me a copy of the report, rather than me having to hope that one turns up in the back of a taxi.
mr president, in may of next year, a regulation will come into force granting europol new powers to fight terrorism and cybercrime. however, this recent data leak represents a serious error, albeit an accidental one. we appear to have been fortunate this time, in that the leaked data was historical data. however, next time we might not be so fortunate. but even leaks of historical data can be of use to extremists. so could you please explain why it took two months for this parliament to find out about the leak? what steps have been taken in terms of europol policy to ensure that the risk of human error is as low as possible? i welcome greater cooperation between member states in fighting international criminal threats, but we need to play our part and ensure that these sorts of errors are avoided.
mr president, i congratulate the management of europol, under its excellent british director rob wainwright, in the conduct of the untoward incident investigation into the breach of historic terrorist data security by a journalist and a rule-breaking former staff member. europol has proven the integrity and reputation of the organisation, and appropriate measures to remedy the breaches are now in place for the future. i wish to take this opportunity to congratulate my country, the united kingdom – in spite of the brexit referendum – to wisely recently re-join europol, and ways must now be found post-brexit for a strategic uk-europol partnership to ensure continuing access by my country to sis, the prüm database, the pnr and the eaw. otherwise the united kingdom will be in a serious and unnecessarily dangerous situation for the security of its citizens in the future.
author. – mr president, thank you for the invitation to answer questions in a previous debate. it was very kind of you to do so. what i will do on the europol data leak debate, for which i was given no speaking time by my political group, is to answer mrs in 't veld in detail in the committee. i was informed in due course by europol and, through full transparency, i will inform mrs in 't veld and the whole committee of how i was informed. thank you for that opportunity. it is much welcomed. we now come to the important oral question, which many colleagues have been waiting for, on the very important, compelling and urgent issue of visa reciprocity. as colleagues will know, this is an ongoing issue of urgency, not just for those five countries and the citizens of those five countries – poland, romania, bulgaria, croatia and cyprus – but indeed a matter of principle for the whole house on questions of symmetry and equality in our relationship with the united states. in 2013, parliament and the council adopted a regulation modifying, amongst other elements, the so-called reciprocity mechanism. it entered into force in january 2014. under eu law and according to this mechanism, if a third country does not lift visa requirements 24 months after notification of a situation of non—reciprocity, the commission is obliged to suspend the visa waiver for citizens of that country for 12 months, via a delegated act to which parliament and the council could object. notifications of five member states – and i have named them – were published by the commission on 12 april 2014. there were at times cases of non—reciprocity also affecting australia, japan and brunei and all of them have now been solved. after 24 months had elapsed, on 12 april 2016, the commission, instead of presenting the delegated act as we required, decided to publish a communication asking the council and parliament for their views. this communication was followed by another communication on 13 july updating the situation and again failing to fulfil the commission’s obligations. as chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, it is my view that the reciprocity mechanism sets out a procedure with precise time frames and actions not subject to discretionality by the commission. therefore, the commission is under an obligation to adopt a delegated act pursuant to article 1(4)(f) of regulation 539/2001. as the commissioner knows, on 7 june 2016, i sent a letter reminding you, commissioner, of the legal obligations of the commission here. on 12 october, during the exchange we had with you in the civil liberties committee, the commission was again urged to act and all the members who took the floor made it clear that the commission does have some more room for manoeuvre. this was our view. in this context, and with an overwhelming majority, we have in the civil liberties committee adopted the following oral question for answer today: do you share the legal assessment according to which the commission is obliged to adopt a delegated act – temporarily suspending the exemption from the visa requirement for nationals of third countries which have not lifted the visa requirement for citizens of certain eu member states – within a period of 24 months from the date of publication of the notifications in this regard, which ended on 12 april 2016? in the event that the commission agrees with the assessment that it is obliged to adopt a delegated act, by when will the commission present this delegated act? and finally, if the commission does not agree, what are the reasons for not agreeing with that assessment? this issue, as i said at the beginning of my presentation of this oral question, is not just about the deep and very understandable concerns of our colleagues from poland, romania, bulgaria, croatia and cyprus; it is about the idea that we in the eu have the right to expect symmetry and equality with the united states in our relationship. we are right to expect fairness. the right to expect fairness is something that we have transmitted directly to our united states partners and to the state department in washington, and we did so respectfully and forcefully. i believe now is the time that we need to find answers from the commission on this very important issue. it is a troubling issue which is now persistent and this oral question comes at a time when i do believe my colleagues from these particular countries – but i do insist, well beyond those countries, and within the civil liberties committee – want to find answers. so commissioner, please try to answer these, i know, very difficult questions on visa reciprocity but which go to the heart of our relationship on visa fairness.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, life for the coptic christians of egypt has considerably improved since president el-sisi came to power. honouring the victims by way of a state funeral and three days of national mourning is a powerful signal that this was not an attack on a minority community but an attack on all egyptians. the attack on saint mark’s cathedral is a stark reminder of the protection that this vulnerable community needs and the security threats that egypt faces more generally on a daily basis. claimed today by isis, this atrocity is an early warning sign of the trend that we will see over the coming year as isis shifts its focus to north africa and the sahel, and mosul and raqqa are squeezed, and as their strongholds in syria are weakened they will go to other places including, i am afraid, europe. in its statement today isis threatened to escalate its war on polytheism and to extend its attacks beyond the sinai peninsula. egypt is a strategic partner of the european union and is battling to contain the threats of high unemployment, a struggling economy, terrorism and the political transition following the fall of mubarak. we in the european union now need to support egypt in these struggles and to better understand the threats that it faces.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this barbaric act was a shameless attack on an ancient centre of christianity. naturally i wish to express my sincere condolences to all those affected. this was not just an attack on a coptic christian community but on all egyptians. i am encouraged how egyptian society, which is of course made up of many different faiths, has widely condemned this atrocity, and moved swiftly to show their support for egypt’s coptic christians. the presidential decision to give the victims state funerals and the announcement of three days’ national mourning must be acknowledged as a noble act of inclusiveness. however, this tragedy again highlights the precarious position facing christian communities across the middle east and north africa. governments have a duty to protect their minorities, and we must do more to support those christians fleeing persecution from islamic fundamentalists.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this may be a step forward in the long campaign to get justice for thalidomide survivors. it should never have been necessary for those survivors to have to campaign to get justice, but campaign they did, and very effectively. so we see here cross-party backing for financial support for all of the survivors. we can play a role here, together with the member states, in coordinating actions, and we urge the german government to allow access to the health scheme which would enable survivors to deal with increasing health problems and independent living costs. the health needs are well documented. a uk study showed that thalidomide survivors were amongst those with the poorest health-related quality of life in the population. that would include some of my constituents in wales. we owe them justice. we owe their families justice. it has been over 50 years; it has been far too long. let us put it right now.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i can remember the births of thalidomide children when i was a boy and the appalling devastation this wreaked on those families. i have been hugely impressed with what those thalidomide victims who have not been so badly affected have been doing in this parliament: going into every single mep’s office, thrusting out their deformed limbs, shock-and-awe tactics that have really woken this place up. but actually, if the eu is to be any use at all it should have got hold of this subject years ago, because this must be the raison d’être of the eu. this is a problem that cuts across different countries. they could have lent on germany to oblige the german government to ask every german taxpayer to contribute 50 cents per year and that would have put this right; or they could have used their own funds rather than wasting them on projects like building administrative centres in hungary for stray dogs, or funding studies in south america for flatulence in cattle. my point to german politicians is: if you change places with a thalidomide victim for 12 hours, you would change your tune. you know what to do – just to do it.
mr president, this is an issue that cuts across national, political and ideological divides. we all surely unite on this to agree that the thalidomide victims get the justice and financial support that they so richly deserve. the german government, and those responsible for making the drugs, should accept their responsibilities and provide adequate support for these brave people who have done so much to help themselves, especially now as they pass into their 60s and need help with the daily tasks that the rest of us take for granted. it is good that we can all put aside our political differences and together call for the victims of the thalidomide drug to be properly looked after, without any more undue delay.
mr president, i am delivering this speech on behalf of my colleague, dr julia reed. the paediatric regulation was adopted 10 years ago to ensure high-quality research into the development of medicines for children and appropriate authorisation of paediatric medicines. however, in 2013 several inadequacies were identified by the progress report adopted by the european commission, especially with regard to paediatric oncology and neonatology. i appreciate that this motion for a resolution investigates this issue and that the development of a policy supporting paediatricians in improving children’s services is of major importance. i also agree with colleagues that children make up the most vulnerable part of the population and that research in the field of paediatric medicine should be given the same parity as adult health research. we in ukip are extremely concerned about the well-being and health of children. however, i firmly believe that this should and would be better done at national level. national parliaments should be the only entities entitled to legislate on this fundamental issue. every member state should shape policy and practices in order to provide high quality and sustainable healthcare services for all children in their own country.
blue-card question. – thank you mr wałęsa. when i was a journalist, before i became an mep, i was working for a paper called the daily express in the united kingdom. we raised a petition of 363 000 readers demanding david cameron grant an in-out referendum on the eu, and we were a key part of ensuring that that referendum took place; that glorious act of democracy took place in june. does that not show that if your cause is just and commands popular support, nothing can really hold back the power of a popular petition?
madam president, today i’m launching a petition very dear to the hearts my constituents in thurrock. four months ago, we and the nicky mason memorial fund, a military charity in my constituency, went about putting up the union flag and st george’s cross in thurrock. the response was overwhelming. we had people coming into my office saying the constituency looks brighter; there was civic pride; the streets were cleaner; everybody felt that the borough was going in the right direction. then enter the killjoys. the tory mp, jackie doyle-price, wrote in the local paper that the flags were inappropriate; she attacked them. the labour party called our national flag offensive. and let me just remind my constituents, when they attack our flag they attack every single one of us. join my campaign today, sign my petition. we can turf out those killjoys, those politically correct bigots who would do our country and our community down. we can turf them out. join us, and together we can turn thurrock around.
author. – madam president, china’s destruction of certain buildings at the larung gar buddhist academy is just the beginning of a plan that will see the influential centre reduced in size by half. such wanton destruction is totally unwarranted and represents part of an incredibly hard-line approach taken towards the tibetan question under president xi jinping. early in september, we witnessed that the postponement of the european parliament delegation visit to the prc in response to the visit of the dalai lama to brussels and his meeting with president schulz. more recently, we have seen ties between mongolia and china being strained after the dalai lama visited ulaanbaatar last month. china has responded by closing and disrupting travel at the border between these two countries, in a move that threatens the important economic links that they share. as the direction of us policy towards china becomes increasingly unpredictable, following the election of donald trump and his pledge to scrap the trans-pacific partnership, we will see a more assertive stance from the prc in the region. such an approach can only be detrimental to tibet and xinjiang, where unfortunately ilham tohti – who is also in the resolution – is in prison for his advocacy rights for the uyghur minority, and of course taiwan. so clearly things are looking extremely uncomfortable in tibet right now.
author. – madam president, with strong cross-party agreement this resolution draws attention to human rights abuses for which the people’s republic of china is responsible. the two cases highlighted, the tibetan buddhist academy of larung gar and the uighur intellectual, ilham tohti, reveal the continuing failure of the chinese government to live up to its international responsibilities for human rights. the destruction of the larung gar buddhist academy is an example of the way that china, as an occupying power, engages in attacks on tibetan religion and culture to try to break the spirit of the tibetan people. subjecting former monks and nuns to so-called ‘patriotic education exercises’ is a failure to respect freedom of religion and an unacceptable humiliation. for this year’s sakharov prize i was proud to nominate ilham tohti, an economics professor and member of the muslim uighur minority in western china. following a flawed legal process where he did not have a proper defence, he is serving a life sentence. we call for his immediate release. this resolution reminds european governments of their responsibility to address human rights abuses when engaging with the chinese government, giving human rights a priority over economic interests – a principle that the british government has forgotten in recent years. earlier this year, i was honoured to meet his holiness the dalai lama, whose example of peaceful resistance offers important lessons to a world in turmoil. our resolution calls on the chinese government to reopen the high-level dialogue with his representatives that was unilaterally suspended in 2010.
madam president, thank you very much once again for addressing this subject. now we all agree that respect for religious belief and culture and language are fundamental human rights that should be protected and respected across the world; yet again we are here, we are talking shop and we are addressing an issue. where that does not happen, of course, we then have an individual that we want to cite and i am going to give that recognition to mr tohti for his incarceration, which is just unfounded and unjustified. but what is the issue here? it is this issue of china, the big global elephant in the room. even this week, in terms of mr juncker’s speech in this chamber, he did not once mention that country. now we could take a leaf out of mr trump’s lexicon and i am no big supporter of mr trump, but in the last few weeks he has actually challenged the ‘one china’ policy, which is universally recognised around the world, and he is prepared to actually stand up to that country. i am going to cite that in this chamber this morning and suggest that if the eu is serious about this, it needs to take a leaf out of that book and learn from it.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the european union is concerned at the deteriorating status of human rights in china, not least with regard to the rights of ethnic and religious minorities in tibet and xinjiang. the european union upholds its one-china policy, while regularly calling upon the chinese authorities to address the concerns of tibetans and uighurs through dialogue. this includes non-use of force, allowing peaceful protest and respecting human rights. the european union has continued to emphasise to china the importance of fostering dialogue with, and between, different ethnic groups and, in the case of tibet, of resuming a meaningful dialogue with the dalai lama’s representatives. the demolition of the larung gar buddhist academy and the expulsions and so—called ‘patriotic re-education’ of monastic individuals are a matter of considerable concern to us. according to the chinese authorities, the demolitions are for health and safety reasons. however, the religious leaders and the monks and nuns concerned were not consulted. the lack of information and dialogue, and the restrictions placed on access to larung gar and on the movement of nuns and monks in the area, have been causing much distress in the community and have even prompted suicides. the european union underlines that, while safety and health concerns may be legitimate, they should not be used as a pretext for repression or forced displacements of religious adherents. what about ilham tohti? professor tohti worked peacefully within chinese law to promote equality and understanding between different ethnic groups. the european union believes that the charges against him were unwarranted and that the due process of law was not respected during his trial, especially regarding his right to a proper defence. the european union considers his life sentence for separatism to be completely unjustified. we call for the immediate and unconditional release of both professor tohti himself and the students detained in connection with his sentencing. we urge the chinese authorities to respect the rights to freedom of expression, religion and belief of all persons belonging to minorities in line with chinese international and human rights commitments and its own constitution.
author. – madam president, let me start by expressing my gratitude to my colleagues for their help in giving the plight of the rohingya people the attention they deserve. their situation is a shocking reminder that, though westerners live in a time of unsurpassed wealth and prosperity, for some human beings even living in third world conditions would be an improvement over how they are forced to live now. recent reports go so far as to refer to instances of ethnic cleansing. this is spine—chilling when one thinks of what happened just a stone’s throw away from here, in bosnia 20 years ago. it is high time for the government of myanmar to stop hiding behind excuses to gloss over the unspeakable abuses taking place. they range from the deliberate destruction of property to rape and outright murder. if it wants to be a respected member of the international community, myanmar must play its part in ending the violence. it must end social discrimination and take steps to ensure that the universal rights of the rohingya people are fully guaranteed. in addition, international observers must also be given the access needed to monitor living conditions. ultimately, citizenship must be restored to the rohingya, giving them access to health care, education, property, marriage rights and jobs. immediate action must be taken to end the oppression and prevent more children from being born into the miserable conditions they are forced to live in today.
author. – mr president, as my colleague has already mentioned, the rohingya community have suffered discrimination and violence in the country of burma for many years, and so i welcome the fact that we are able today to agree this urgency resolution in this house. the current wave of violence and repression has been described as ethnic cleansing, a term that should fill us all with dread in this continent as we have experienced it all too recently, and it has also been described as involving crimes against humanity. in our resolution we urge the country of bangladesh, which has already provided refuge to many thousands of rohingya who are fleeing burma, to keep their border open and we call on the international community to support the government of bangladesh in offering refuge. we also call upon the government of myanmar, which must stop the repression, condemn violence against the rohingya and allow international observers into the area. we call too on the eu governments to always view their relationship with myanmar through the lens of human rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i am glad that the concerns of human rights violations are finally finding space on the agenda of myanmar’s government. however, harassment, killings, religious persecution and other discrimination against rohingyas continue. the establishment of a commission of inquiry into the cases of these violent attacks is welcomed, but we expect more concrete actions from the burmese authorities, and especially from mrs suu kyi. security forces need to be brought under control and held to account. otherwise, the democratic gains made in the country risk being rolled back again. it is time to speak of a political solution for this community. rohingyas must be recognized as an official ethnic group and granted full rights as burmese citizens. the european union must also push neighbouring countries to address the condition of rohingya refugees to ensure that they are not turned back and are integrated into society. the situation of the rohingya population is a major test for the new democratic government of myanmar.
author. – madam president, many of us have used the term ‘shocking’ to describe the discovery of mass graves in iraq, but tragically their discovery only confirms our worst fears: isis has carried out the most horrendous crimes against humanity, in a campaign that bears all the hallmarks of a genocide, particularly for yazidis. in order to at least attempt to achieve justice for the victims and their families, it will be important to secure the sites as much as possible. although we must be mindful of the limited resources and difficult circumstances that those on the ground militarily face in trying to do this. such crimes and atrocities, unfortunately, are not unique to either iraq or to isis. as the syrian army concludes its campaign to retake aleppo, harrowing accounts of summary executions against innocent civilians are already beginning to surface. as the battle for mosul continues, particularly as it reaches its most difficult stages of street-to-street combat, i fear that such atrocities will become only too familiar in the middle east.
author. – mr president, these mass graves tell a powerful tale of unspeakable cruelty, a barbarism of the type which we thought and had hoped had been wiped from the face of the earth last century with the total and utter collapse of the ideologies of those such as stalin and hitler. every single person who is tortured to death in custody, every rape, every murder, every unspeakable act of brutality, puts our world to shame. every genocidal act seems to drive the innocent yazidis from the face of this earth and seeks to murder those of so many religions. even as isis is being driven from mosul in iraq, even as that scourge is being removed, supposedly never to return, we see a chilling reminder that many of those same people who terrorised mosul have gone to palmyra in syria, which was supposedly liberated just months ago, to force the same unspeakable horrors upon that ancient city once again. in iraq, there may be glimmers of hope; we may speak of war crimes and justice, of a response to the utter inhumanity of what happened and to what is happening there still. those who are dead may never be brought back to life, but what we can do is seek justice and seek a world in which these things never happen again. yet we see that however bad the situation in mosul, the situation in syria is even worse. the international community simply must work together. we must drive this scourge and the barbarous ideology from our planet. it is so sad that every day that this continues, yet more lives are being lost, more people are being tortured, and more people are being murdered. we must do whatever we can to stop these barbaric acts.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is part of a larger package on visas which looks to bring in a number of changes over time that will give the commission more powers over visa implementation rules. i do not believe the commission should wield such power, as it should belong to individual member states. therefore, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing external borders and those whose nationals are exempt. the revision is not needed, and the threat to end the visa waiver when there are no asylum seekers in the third country does not comply with the right to asylum as an individual right. i am working to make wales a true country of sanctuary.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the included changes are seen as cushioning part of a much bigger and rather controversial proposal to conclude visa-free travel agreements with ukraine and georgia.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it is not for the eu to be involved in nation states’ visa regulation.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted in favour of this report, which is based on the suspension mechanism in article 1(a) of regulation (ec) no 539/2001, which allows for the temporary suspension of the visa exemption for nationals of a third country in certain emergency situations, as a last resort. it can be triggered by any member state by notifying the commission that it is confronted with circumstances leading to an emergency situation which the member state in question cannot remedy on its own. after several difficult trilogues, the european parliament and the council have reached an agreement, under which both member states and the european commission will be able to trigger the suspension mechanism. the commission will be in charge of monitoring the situation in visa-exempt countries and reporting to parliament and the council on whether they still fulfil visa waiver condition, such as respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i believe that if this resolution is passed, further amendments could be tabled to hinder the trade of north african citrus fruits that would only benefit the interests of southern european businesses. the outcome of this resolution will have no impact on the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. strict controls are needed to prevent the entry of pests which can damage the livelihoods of producers and the environment. plant pests have created significant problems for eu agriculture and biodiversity and it is important for the agricultural sector in wales that it is protected from that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not wish to see even more eu laws.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in support of this objection, which concerns a proposal for a new implementing act on the phytosanitary measures for import of plants and plants products. the commission draft would modify the existing rules for citruses for processing in specific countries. the outbreak of xyllela fastidiosa in italy and the introduction of invasive alien species in europe show that we need to ensure that all imports of plants or plants products are free of pests. one infected plant can destroy a whole sector or the economy of a whole region.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of transparency and democracy i wish to confirm that i voted in favour of this resolution. fair support and compensation for thalidomide victims is important and we should be in favour of such action.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this resolution, which i co-signed, as an overdue statement of support for thalidomide victims. many governments, and in particular the german government, have failed in their duty of care to thalidomide survivors. they, and grünenthal gmbh, which has still to this day not accepted full responsibility for its actions 50 years ago, need to start working together in the interests of thalidomide survivors. i hope this resolution sends a strong signal that action is needed now, as thalidomide survivors and their carers reach a stage in their lives where more assistance will inevitably be needed. they have waited long enough for proper compensation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, of which i was a signatory, on the recognition of the victims of thalidomide. the thalidomide survivors’ campaign has worked tirelessly for many years for justice for all survivors. while there is a fund in wales for survivors, in some countries they get no support at all, while their health and care needs are increasing. it is over fifty years now. we need urgent action from the german government.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on thalidomide victims. germany should take responsibility for the government’s actions in the 1970s and allow the victims access to the survivors fund. the money is urgently needed to help care for those affected by this drug and adapt homes so they are able to live as independently as possible. it is a disgrace that the fight for recognition from the pharmaceutical company is still ongoing. i hope that this report will enable some real progress to be made for many victims.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this: thalidomide victims should be properly compensated.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to put pressure on the german government to extend the funding available for thalidomide survivors in germany to those survivors from other countries concerned. the timing of the resolution is crucially important, as in january 2017 the german parliament will amend a law on the rules for providing financial support. thalidomide survivors should be formally recognised in all member states concerned and be finally given adequate and fair compensation from the special health fund of the german contergan stiftung.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this call for eu member states and the commission to coordinate actions and measures to recognise and provide compensation to thalidomide survivors. the commission should create a framework protocol at eu level, under which all eu citizens affected by thalidomide would receive similar amounts of compensation, and draw up an eu programme of assistance and support to victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ i am very happy parliament finally voted a resolution on the thalidomide case, following a commission statement, calling on the german government to engage with victims and survivors, and to admit all survivors to its special health fund. this is a key milestone in the campaign for thalidomide survivors across europe that i have been supporting since my first day in parliament, regularly meeting with victims and campaigners from the uk and other member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the paediatric regulation should be updated, based on a review of its effectiveness since it was passed in 2007. i support the call for more incentives that stimulate research into paediatric medicine whilst ensuring transparency of the research and development process. science and research is an area where european level cooperation is appropriate so that knowledge and best practises can be shared.
in writing. ‒ i am extremely concerned about children’s health and well-being. developing and promoting policy to support paediatricians in improving children’s services is of major importance. every eu member state should shape policy and practices to provide high quality and sustainable healthcare services for all children. however, i believe that this should and would be better done at a national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which stems from regulation no 1901/2006 on paediatric medicines. it is important to foster innovation in paediatric medicines to ensure that in the future all children can be treated with medicines that have been developed for and proved effective and safe for use for children.
in writing. ‒ i received many letters from my constituents about this issue, including details of upsetting individual cases, so i am proud to support parliament’s resolution on paediatric medicines. cancer is still the biggest cause of death by disease for children in europe, which is why we should ensure that children with cancer are not missing out on life-saving treatment. i hope that the commission will consider this resolution and make necessary changes to the current law on paediatric medicines.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i do not wish to see the eu involved in this area, however i do wish to see more development in this area.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this resolution which stems from regulation no 1901/2006 on paediatric medicines. it is important to foster innovation in paediatric medicines to ensure that in the future all children can be treated with medicines that have been developed for and proved effective and safe for use for children. however i voted against amendment 1 because effectively this amendment would mean that the regulators should not oblige companies to complete paediatric studies on medicines that could possibly prove to be ineffective or unsafe. the key change brought forward by the paediatric regulation, which i fully support, was to oblige companies to do paediatric investigation plans on all new medicines which they develop, unless a waiver is granted. the 6-month patent or spc extension is granted to companies who complete those paediatric investigation plans, regardless of whether the new medicine will be authorised for use for children. amendment 1 effectively challenges the system of a compulsory pip followed by a reward if the pip is adequately completed. companies are reluctant to complete paediatric studies because they mean additional costs for them, so it is absolutely necessary to have compulsory paediatric investigation plans. this amendment was also rejected at committee level.
in writing. ‒ around 6 000 minors die of cancer each year in europe. out of those who survive, two thirds suffer from treatment-related side effects for the rest of their lives. the paediatric regulation has had a substantial impact on the development of children’s medicine, but not enough progress has been made in a number of fields, especially oncology. this is why, together with my socialist and democrat colleagues in parliament, i voted in favour of the resolution calling for funding and proper policies that stimulate more research into paediatric medicines, and is aimed at improving the treatments and the quality of life for child and teenage cancer survivors.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe in the relevance of the committee of petitions as i believe issues that need to be discussed by citizens should always be discussed at a national level and not within the political structures of the european union. for this reason, i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report of the committee on petitions 2015. this report serves two purposes - to give an account of the committee’s work over the past year, and to put forward a resolution on the political and practical lessons learned. several of my constituents in wales have presented petitions, as i have done myself. the effective participation of citizens is vital for any democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as this report acknowledges the relevance of the committee on petitions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the work programme and activities of the petitions committee are dictated by the petitions which are submitted to it by citizens exercising their right to petition the european parliament. the activities of the committee for 2015 are outlined in this annual report. it also includes other important aspects such as relations with other eu institutions and national authorities; some obstacles in the treatment of petitions such as the commission’s strict interpretation of article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights or the need for greater transparency on infringement procedures. the report also calls for improvements in the petitions web portal where citizens can upload their petitions.
in writing. ‒ as the committee which deals directly with citizens, this report highlights the main activities of the petitions committee, which are based on citizens’ petitions to parliament. the committee has the potential to reconnect institutions and eu citizens by directly involving them and assessing the impact of community legislation on their everyday lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as to vote in favour would be acknowledging the relevance of this committee.
in writing. ‒ as the committee which deals directly with citizens this report highlights the main activities of the petitions committee which are based on citizens’ petitions to the parliament. the committee has the potential to reconnect institutions and eu citizens by directly involving them and assessing the impact of community legislation on their everyday lives. also outlined are other aspects such as relations with other eu institutions and national authorities; some obstacles in the treatment of petitions such as the commission’s strict interpretation of article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights or the need for greater transparency on infringement procedures. the report also calls for improvements in the petitions web portal where citizens can upload their petitions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as i do not believe the european union should have the right to negotiate international aviation agreements on the uk’s behalf. these agreements should always be taken at a member state level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on aviation agreements because it calls on the commission to better inform and involve the european parliament regarding its negotiations on aviation with some non-eu states. i made a commitment to my constituents in wales that i would always work for more transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as the eu should not be involved in the sovereign airspace of the uk.
