the commission the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the next meeting of the european council. the deception is that of so-called equal competition which always leads to the domination of monopolies. the concern is related to competition with russia, china and particularly the united states, the digital economy with billions of dollars of online sales without borders, the automotive industry, transport, telecommunications, media, food and agricultural products in view of the transatlantic agreement, even the energy sector, where competitiveness means wars and refugees, state funding is reduced in areas such as public health, education, welfare, but not for banks, whose recapitalization people pay, as they also pay legal tax payments on capital, rather than the alleged false credit that is given to tax havens. but there's also the big lie. what is being concealed is the competitive requirement, that the reduction in the so-called labour costs will be automatically ensured by the national competitiveness councils together with the european union and the governments. there is no good or bad competitiveness, because competitiveness always means popular sacrifices for the market economy, for capitalism. instead of serving competition, the people must declare war on it to regain their own power.
the commission mr president, the european union's competition policy is not a tool for safeguarding european democracy, because the union itself, as the case may be, is biased in favour of or against companies or firms. it distorts competition in the single market, it applies targeted aggressive tax policies and practices, and it does not avoid inconsistencies in its treatment at company and national level. they accuse google, for example, of abusing its dominant position. very well, because there must be control. at the same time, however, financial scandals and illegal activities by companies such as germany's siemens and volkswagen remain untouched. in greece, over the past five years, the troika, by abolishing any notion of a sovereign state, has interfered in the design of tax laws, resulting in an increase in tax evasion and tax fraud by shell companies engaged in entirely non-existent credit strangulation activities, an increase in austerity leading to poverty and deprivation, and a deterioration in the situation in immigration, economic policy, fundamental freedoms and competition. you have achieved your primary objective: the complete subordination of the nation states in europe to the banks and the oligarchs. your fear of the rise of nationalism is not, as you say, about the abolition of democracy, intolerance and homophobia. what you fear now is that national movements, gaining popular support, will eventually make you pay for your undemocratic policies. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission mr president, the european union must abandon its double-speak and evasive tactics and immediately apply the rules of law to protect free competition and the prohibition of state aid in the case of the lemon contract for the concession of the 14 regional airports in greece to the german state-owned company fraport. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreements concluded between the airlines and the airlines in question were concluded in the same way as the agreements concluded between the airlines and the airlines in question. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreements concluded between the airlines concerned and the airlines of the region concerned constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. in addition, in breach of eu state aid rules, it receives as dowry eur 500 million of esf projects at thessaloniki and chania airports. does the commission hear this ? if so, what does he intend to do?
the commission i would like to ask the president-in-office to give me the floor, mr president, on the basis of the rules of procedure, because the honourable member has made some remarks. he said i was racing against germany. firstly, i am not a nationalist and i would like to emphasize this to my colleague. i am filled with a spirit of resistance against the neo-colonialism that this german policy wants to impose on greece. secondly, what i said was that fraport is a german state company and that it now has a monopoly on the traffic and control of airports through lufthansa, which is a shareholder in fraport. i didn't say lufthansa dominates, i said it's a shareholder in fraport. you now control the flow of tourism in greece. i would therefore ask the commissioner if she will allow this. will you finally take action to stop illegal competition and, above all, to stop illegal state aid? five hundred and twenty million euros has been taken from this company. this is the reality. will you be intervening on state aid issues? (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission madam president, tuna fishing in the mediterranean and the atlantic is of particular importance, since it contributes to job creation in many countries, both within and outside the european union. in 2006, iccat established a multiannual framework expiring in 2022 with the aim of restoring tuna to rebuild tuna stocks in the atlantic and mediterranean. in greece, fishermen have suffered enormous damage from the memorandum. the european union has also called for the immediate release of the hostages and for the immediate release of the hostages to be released. the fishermen of pangaea, crete and fethiotis are on their side and are preparing a hot january against the troika and the creditors. the greek fishermen are not going to accept the agricultural memorandum which is destroying their lives, their families, their businesses. they demand a fair return for their labour, they demand the reconstruction of the primary sector and they will fight unitedly, on the basis of their just demands, for their own survival.
s & d) and the madam president, as many colleagues have already said, and as mrs ward's report very rightly points out, intercultural dialogue does indeed reflect some of the fundamental values of the european union. these values came to fruition both through the reception of the migrants by the german public and through the heroic efforts of the islanders in greece to save the refugees. but these values lose their meaning without political will and action, and this is where we are. so how can values be enhanced through education, culture, the arts and sport? i have second thoughts about religions, because they often contradict the enlightened concepts of humanity. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i hope that this report will be the beginning of a different, more generous european approach to these critical issues.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the eu has recently been struggling to respond to the critical juncture it is experiencing amid the uncontrolled flow of migrants into europe, the increasing influx of recruited fighters of religious terrorism and the spread of cross-border organised crime with europe as its main target. among other things, we were shocked by the recent reports of numerous sexual assaults on women in cologne by foreigners, which has once again fuelled the spread of extreme racist anti-european messages, mainly targeting migrants and containing intolerance of diversity of any kind within the eu. in the europe of the 28, strengthening intercultural dialogue is a catalyst, especially in the field of fundamental rights, with the aim of promoting european values as set out in the eu charter of fundamental rights, and respect for the cultural, religious and human diversity, not only of european populations but also of those who legitimately seek a free environment of equality and social cohesion, to work and raise their children, hunted by the mob of war. in the face of the pressure of the migration/refugee issue, it is necessary to understand that it is inconceivable that refugees, irregular migrants, common law criminals and terrorists should be socially assimilated and be subjected to a generalised leveling and degrading treatment.
the commission mr president, the issue of interbank and other charges is a key issue for consumers, particularly in greece where the banks have been recapitalised with the sweat of the greek people and where capital controls are still in place. the increased charges imposed by banks on interbank transactions are putting an undue burden on the greek people. the fees range from eur 2 to more than eur 10 for simple electronic money transfers for amounts up to eur 1000, fees from eur 1 to eur 1,25 for credit cards, a bank fee of between eur 2 and 2,5% for small and medium-sized shops, while unlike very large shops the fee is lower than 1%, although regulation (eu) 2015/751 provides inter alia for maximum fees for credit and debit cards of eur 0,30 and 0,20 respectively. at the same time, the banks are excessively delaying the issuance of the necessary certificates and documents that red loan borrowers have needed and still need to comply with the provisions of the katseli act and to save their homes from the crows. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking system is not undermined by the introduction of new forms of fraud.
ecr), in writing. women's entrepreneurship in the eu member states is characterised by rather low rates compared to men's entrepreneurship. recently, selfemployment rates for women in europe were only 31%, while parttime employment rates for women were 30% compared to 10% for men. in countries hit by merkel's austerity, such as greece, the unemployment rate for women in the first quarter of 2015 reached 30.6% against 23.5% for men, with women earning 16% less than men. in addition, the new anti-insurance bill promoted by the troika closes down any prospect of women's entrepreneurship, since women self-employed will devote over 80% of their annual income to insurance contributions and taxes. so thousands of women took to the streets to protest against the troika. in addition, women farmers are taking the brunt of the problem as social security and taxation systems disrupt agricultural production, erode farm income, exclude women farmers from the labour market and reduce their pensions.
the commission mr president, since the troika began to implement the memorandum policies, the rate of unemployment in greece, both among young people and among the general population, has become the highest in the european union. also, recent oecd reports put greece in first place in the world in the unemployment rate of graduates with 19.4% , and this while the country is on the list of the ten smartest in the world based on the number of graduates in the fields of technology and science. as expected, this situation is pushing thousands of young people to look for work abroad, especially in creditor countries such as germany, which find a cheap and highly skilled workforce without having spent a single euro on their training. the only way to combat this unprecedented phenomenon of colonial brain drain is to abolish the memoranda which hold the economies of the european periphery hostage to the creditors, who have absorbed their main source of wealth, their people.
the commission mr president, the syriza/anel government in greece, after taking on the dirty work of implementing memoranda and eu treaties, is now satisfying the capitalist demand for further demolition of social security, relieving employers and the state of their responsibility and offering cheaper labour, saving billions and boosting capital. no one is left out - old and young workers and pensioners, farmers, self-employed people, women and young people in particular, who, because of the oscillation between unemployment and flexible working relationships, will be content with the vast majority of people on old-age pensions. in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty. the government is seeking, as it did for its memorandum, democratic legitimacy for its crime from the european parliament, bringing to light its own reactionary role. the people are refusing to be slaughtered by the government, they are organizing and fighting with demonstrations and general strikes to prevent the anti-insurance abomination from reaching the house.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr bettel, mr juncker, i am sorry but i cannot share, nor can my political group, the optimism, the praise, the rudeness among luxembourgers. the luxembourg presidency has tried, but we are now measuring the council's results after six months and the figures and facts call for concern, vigilance, responsibility and not complacency. in september you decided to relocate 160,000 refugees, distributing them proportionately across europe. what's the account? how far have the decisions been implemented? a few hundred people were relocated, not even 1%. you have left greece alone and virtually helpless to bear the burden of 85% of the refugee flows. you signed a framework agreement with turkey, but mr timmermans says that nothing has changed in terms of reducing the flow of refugees because the turkish authorities are waiting for the money without implementing the commitments they have made. and in this environment of selfishness, nationalism, xenophobia, the cries are heard: it's all because of schengen! but smaller schengen means no schengen and the collapse of schengen means the collapse of the eurozone and that will not only cost the republic or the refugees; it will cost the economy dearly. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister of luxembourg, objectively your presidency has been identified - not only by the greeks but also by all those who believe that the european union is a democratic space - with the imposition of a political coup in greece. during your presidency the european central bank illegally closed down the greek banks and created the threat of bankruptcy in greece. during your presidency you threw away the will of the greek people, who rejected by 62% in the referendum the imposition of a new economic programme of destruction a new memorandum. during your presidency, a programme of this kind was continued, unfortunately with the present government's tolerance, a programme which destroys the country's productive base, sells public property and erases every trace of the welfare state in greece. during your presidency, every trace of humanity has been lost, as refugees and migrants continue to drown in the aegean and the mediterranean while you do absolutely nothing. the european union is a democratic society, and it is not just a political union, but a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union. i would therefore like to stress to you that the future of the peoples of europe cannot be a european union which, even in this limited role, you have led for six months. the future of the peoples of europe cannot be poverty, recession, racism or the failure to manage humanitarian crises.
mr president, the luxembourg presidency's handling of the refugee is a monumental failure, since it has turned greece into a warehouse of souls. thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants are now on the aegean islands and in the rest of greece. the famous 'resettlement' policy of 160,000 refugees has failed, mr prime minister of luxembourg, it has failed, mr juncker. only a few refugees have been moved under this system. by calculation, there were only one hundred and eighty-four by december. what about turkey? you're drowning turkey, even though turkey and the turkish leadership are known to encourage the slave trade. you have taken no action despite the complaints that have been made, despite the evidence that we have. at the same time, what you are doing by promoting the new frontex is creating a mechanism that will be able to intervene operationally and act beyond the will of states and governments, which violates greece's sovereign rights and automatically turns it into a protectorate.
mr president, with all due respect to you, i would like to point out that the non-attached members of the european parliament have not been elected in any way different from all the other members. unfortunately, in the process of "catching the eye", we never get any speaking time. already, our time as unregistered is very limited. it is also a fact that the speakers of the 'catch the eye' are always themselves and those from the political groups, and we are excluded. i thank you and i think you should take up the matter.
mr president, on 17 december 2015, our parliament adopted a resolution condemning the human rights violations in burundi and calling for the immediate release of greek citizen spyros-richard hagibimana, who was imprisoned at the end of june because, as a police officer and head of a repressive force, he refused to order his men to fire on protesters. i would therefore like to inform the house today of the happy ending of the adventure of spyros, who was found not guilty by the court last friday, 15 january, and will soon be free to be with us. this development demonstrates the important influence that the decisions of the european parliament can have and confirms that we must continue our efforts unwaveringly.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the prospect of lifting the immunity of mep adam siekierski. as the legal proceedings against him do not concern political activities, i do not think we have any reason to oppose the request of the competent authorities and that is why i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must under no circumstances lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and justice, and that is why i am voting in favour of the report on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of czesław adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of immunity of czesław adam siekierski following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must under no circumstances lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and justice, which is why i am voting in favour of the report on the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity of czesław adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of immunity of czesław adam siekierski following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ the in this report, parliament has shaped its negotiating policy by incorporating the measures of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean into union law. these measures, which i voted in favour of, were adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas for the period 2012-2014 and are aimed at the sustainable management of tuna stocks and the respect of quota provisions in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas. in addition to voting in favour of the measures, we also succeeded in passing our amendment, which concerned owners of large fishing vessels and the negative impact of their activities on the sustainability of fisheries. we await the outcome of the negotiations with the european commission and the council.
in writing. ‒ the we are opposed to the logic of quotas in the various productive sectors of the member states' economies. we believe that quotas reduce the self-sufficiency of the member states and cause withering in the south, where the economy has traditionally been based largely on primary production. the eu must indeed show an interest in the conservation of these fish but it must also show an interest in the conservation of the fishing industry itself, something which we believe is impossible with iccat, as shown by the multitude of complaints from scientists, international organisations and ngos raising alarm bells about its policies. it is the member states which must step up their efforts to conserve biodiversity and their own economies. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to improve the tuna population, but we believe that the overall decline in the population is not caused by traditional fishermen but by the industrialized fishing of certain multinational companies.
in writing. ‒ the i am opposed to the multiannual plan for the recovery of tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean because i do not agree with the logic of quotas in the various productive sectors of the member states' economies. i believe that quotas reduce the self-sufficiency of the member states and cause withering in the south, whose economy is traditionally and largely based on primary production. the eu must have an interest in the conservation of these fish, but it must also have an interest in the conservation of the fishing industry itself. i think that this cannot be done with iccat when there are so many complaints from scientists, international organisations and ngos calling out the alarm about its policies. it is up to the member states to step up their efforts to conserve biodiversity and their own economies. the member states must take the necessary measures to boost the tuna population, but i believe that the overall decline is not the fault of traditional fishermen but of the industrialized fishing of certain multinational companies.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009 because i agree with the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on competition policy because i think that, on the whole, it is quite positive and points out all the areas where improvement is needed. together with my colleagues from the socialist group, we tabled an amendment on the need to support the aluminium industry in europe, which was sufficiently supported by the other colleagues and approved by the house.
in writing. ‒ the today's resolution on the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs is part of a very important process because it deals with competitiveness which has a major impact on economic activities within the european territory. the commission's proposals are a positive basis, but i think they are not complete and do not cover all the important issues for the benefit of the european citizens. in this context, i cannot accept that the effort made is sufficient and that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ while the report highlights the distortions of existing practices that hamper development, destroy smes and favour tax evasion and unfair competition, it nevertheless avoids stressing the need to apply competition rules and recommends those rules and controls which will not destroy national - local markets (by imposing the single market) but instead force profitable multinational companies to contribute to the financing of member states - and promote entrepreneurship and transparency, in particular in companies in the pharmaceutical, food, fuel, telecommunications services, etc.
in writing. ‒ the while the report highlights the distortions of existing practices which hamper development, destroy smes and favour tax evasion and unfair competition, it fails to highlight the need for competition rules and does not propose those rules and controls which will not destroy national - local markets (by imposing the single market) but instead force profitable multinational companies to contribute to the financing of member states and promote entrepreneurship and transparency, particularly in pharmaceutical, food, fuel, telecommunications and other businesses. for these reasons, i am voting against the report on the annual report on eu competition policy.
in writing. ‒ every year the econ committee draft its evaluation and new priorities. this report is a key tool for the european union, since the commission has more power regarding this topic. furthermore, the european parliament has to analyse the implementation of competition policies. it is essential for the gue/ngl to evaluate econ’s activities and reorder to include some socials concerns. even if the final report includes some important points for our political group, i voted abstention since the general content of the report is still very neoliberal.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the annual report on eu competition policy for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 18/1/2016. in my view, this report is neither complete nor well-documented.
in writing. ‒ while the report highlights the distortions of existing practices that hamper development, destroy smes and favour tax evasion and unfair competition, it nevertheless avoids stressing the need to apply competition rules and recommends those rules and controls which will not destroy national - local markets (by imposing the single market) but instead force profitable multinational companies to contribute to the financing of member states - and promote entrepreneurship and transparency, in particular in companies in the pharmaceutical, food, fuel, telecommunications services, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr langen of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on competition policy in the eu. the annual report examines, by sector, the main areas of interest in antitrust proceedings, state aid, financial taxation and financial aid, and merger control.
in writing. ‒ the in this report, parliament wishes to stress the importance of intercultural and interreligious dialogue, cultural diversity and education as prerequisites for peace and conflict management, the defence of fundamental human rights and the promotion of mutual respect and social inclusion and cohesion. through intercultural dialogue, there can be real communication between peoples and the foundations can be laid for the preparation of future generations, so as to form a society of responsible citizens who respect diversity and act to combat social phenomena such as discrimination, racism, xenophobia and others. i believe that education and intercultural dialogue are the only way in which we as european citizens can face the main challenges of today's society and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. the report contains a number of particularly positive elements and proposals which can serve as a basis for improving the conditions for cooperation and understanding between citizens. that is why i voted in favour of the need to promote the fundamental values of the eu.
in writing. ‒ europe is at a dead end and yet continues to support intercultural dialogue and diversity in education and culture, targeting european citizens against those who are actually incapable of dialogue and sharing the same values. the strengthening of intercultural dialogue, especially in educational institutions, can only have negative consequences for society, with the risk of a repetition of the dramatic events that europe has experienced in recent months and a resurgence of extremism. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ europe is at a dead end and yet continues to support intercultural dialogue and diversity in education and culture, targeting european citizens against those who are actually incapable of dialogue and sharing the same values. the strengthening of intercultural dialogue, especially in educational institutions, can only have negative consequences for society, with the risk of a repetition of the dramatic events that europe has experienced in recent months and a resurgence of extremism. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ in light of the dramatic events that europe has faced in the past months and years, this report aims at building on the common agreement of education ministers to tackle intolerance and radicalisation through the promotion of intercultural dialogue. i strongly believe that education and intercultural learning are crucial to prevent violent extremism. hence, the report recognises intercultural dialogue as a tool for inclusive democratic participation. it also stresses the need to integrate this dialogue in a transversal way in all eu policy areas, calls on the eu and the member states to implement interactive methods of rights-based learning and proposes to increase public investment in these methods. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the fundamental values of the eu because i do not consider it to be complete and well documented. however, i would like to point out that intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education can indeed play a major role in promoting the eu's fundamental values, especially now that, due to the high levels of refugee and migration flows, interculturalism itself is inevitably intensifying and growing. the european union must therefore promote intercultural dialogue between countries and between people. at the same time, however, both refugees and migrants must respect the core values of the eu member states in which they are hosted. this means that the eu must fund forms of education to make all those refugees who will remain in the eu, for as long as they remain, aware that they are temporary guests and that they must live and behave with full respect for the culture and national traditions of the host member states. muslim refugees in particular must abandon sharia practices and respect the national identity, way of life, institutions and religion of the countries that host them.
in writing. ‒ europe is at a dead end and yet continues to support intercultural dialogue and diversity in education and culture, targeting european citizens against those who are actually incapable of dialogue and sharing the same values. the strengthening of intercultural dialogue, especially in educational institutions, can only have negative consequences for society, with the risk of a repetition of the dramatic events that europe has experienced in recent months and a resurgence of extremism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this vote which brings eu citizens closer together. the final text contains the amendments tabled by me as a member of the committee on culture and education, concerning, among other things, the importance of sport in social integration and combating social phenomena, the role of the internet and communication technologies and the encouragement of a wider international dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's present report, which i voted in favour of, calls on the european commission to take account of the impact of the legislation adopted in recent years on financial markets and to ensure that the eu is protected against future crises. in addition, this report looks forward to the efficiency and effectiveness that legislation must demonstrate in the real economy environment. the creation of the capital markets union is expected to contribute to this. in conclusion, the socialist and democratic group supports the creation of a capital markets union, with the aim of harmonising financial legislation with the real economy and reducing red tape.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the regulation of financial services in the union could not have a positive effect. the apparent absence of key references in the report, together with the lack of innovative proposals, make such efforts futile. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the the failure of the financial system to respond to the economic crisis and its impact has demonstrated the lack of appropriate and high quality financial services regulation for increasingly complex markets and products. the regulatory framework should cover all financial sectors, banking, insurance, real estate and securities markets, investment funds, etc. the framework we need will impose transparency on the market, efficiency in macro-prudential supervision, international competitiveness of european enterprises, promotion of entrepreneurship, efficiency in removing market barriers, and will at the same time provide the possibility of fully assessing and/or quantifying the overall impact and interaction of individual measures.
in writing. ‒ the the failure of the financial system to respond to the economic crisis and its impact has highlighted the lack of appropriate and high-quality regulation of financial services for increasingly complex markets and financial products. the regulatory framework should cover all financial sectors, banking, insurance, real estate and securities markets, investment funds, etc. and should impose market transparency, efficiency in macro-prudential supervision, international competitiveness of european businesses, promotion of entrepreneurship, efficiency in removing market barriers, while providing the means to fully assess and/or quantify the overall impact and interaction of individual measures. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the report on the balance sheet and the challenges of eu regulation for financial services.
in writing. ‒ this report is on the legislative work of the econ committee, in particular regarding the capital market union. however, all the shortcomings in financial services have still not been addressed in this report. furthermore, i think that this outcome is modest on the future challenges that we will have to overcome. even if i welcome the capital market union and the efsi, i voted against this report since i was expecting more legislative work towards a more efficient and effective eu framework for financial regulation.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report entitled 'a review and challenges of eu financial services regulation: impact and next steps towards a more efficient and effective eu framework for financial regulation and the capital markets union' for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 18.1.2016, as this report is, in my view, neither complete nor well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the failure of the financial system to respond to the economic crisis and its impact have highlighted the lack of appropriate and high quality financial services regulation for increasingly complex markets and products. the regulatory framework should cover all financial sectors, banking, insurance, real estate and securities markets, investment funds, etc. we need a framework that will impose transparency on the market, efficiency in macro-prudential supervision, international competitiveness of european enterprises, promotion of entrepreneurship, efficiency in removing market barriers and will provide opportunities for full assessment and/or quantitative analysis of the overall impact and interaction of individual measures.
in writing. ‒ the the report by mr bulz aims to outline the framework of those actions and rules which will make possible an improved regulation of financial services in the union, thus determining future developments. the majority of the political groups approved the text in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i, for my part, voted in favour of its final adoption.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on women entrepreneurs because i think the eu's female entrepreneurship rate is low, at only 12%, and because i think it is worthwhile to put more emphasis on women entrepreneurship as a separate priority in the economy. i would also point out that the employment rates of women in the eu are 59% and are far from the 2020 target of 75%. the proportion of selfemployed women is 31%. finally, the report aims to overcome obstacles and address challenges, and to increase the rates of female entrepreneurship, through access to additional funding and through support for social entrepreneurship, which will in turn promote gender balance.
in writing. ‒ the wider issue of women's entrepreneurship is a particularly important area to which we need to turn our attention. the need for women entrepreneurs to find the necessary outlets to develop their activities is clear and urgent in a europe that is looking for ways to return to healthy growth. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the we are opposed to this report first of all because it does not correspond to greek reality. the eu should adopt specific strategies to promote female entrepreneurship in the light of the real needs of the member states and not in a general and vague way as presented in the report, as many women-owned start-ups cannot adapt and grow in the local market. in addition, according to the report, the eu intends to finance women's entrepreneurship activities, but there is also mention of subsidies and investments in lifelong training and retraining programmes (progress), which we are opposed to. finally, through freedom and full equality of the sexes, a new role for women emerges in today's rapidly changing economic environment, but one that puts the institution of the family aside.
in writing. ‒ the women's entrepreneurship is indeed a catalyst for reducing unemployment and for economic recovery but only when it is developed in a country with a healthy economy and not in a country in a period of economic crisis, such as greece, where businesses are shrinking and going bankrupt. we are opposed to this report first of all because it does not correspond to greek reality. the eu should adopt specific strategies to promote female entrepreneurship in the light of the real needs of the member states and not in a general and vague way as presented in the report, as many women-owned start-ups cannot adapt and grow in the local market. in addition, according to the report, the eu intends to finance women's entrepreneurship activities, but at the same time there is also mention of subsidies and investments in lifelong training and retraining programmes (progress), which we are opposed to. finally, through freedom and full equality of the sexes, a new role for women emerges in today's rapidly changing economic environment, a role which inevitably sidelines the institution of the family. i am therefore voting against the report on the external factors which hinder female entrepreneurship in europe.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the external factors that hinder women's entrepreneurship in europe because it is comprehensive and well documented, as i have also mentioned in detail in my written contribution on the subject.
in writing. ‒ the women's entrepreneurship is indeed a catalyst for reducing unemployment and for economic recovery but only when it is developed in a country with a healthy economy and not in a country in a period of economic crisis, such as greece, where businesses are shrinking and going bankrupt. the report does not reflect greek reality. the eu should adopt specific strategies to promote female entrepreneurship in the light of the real needs of the member states and not in a general and vague way as presented in the report, as many women-owned start-ups cannot adapt and grow in the local market. in addition, according to the report, the eu intends to finance women's entrepreneurship activities, but at the same time there is also mention of subsidies and investments in lifelong training and retraining programmes (progress), which we are opposed to. finally, through freedom and full equality of the sexes, a new role for women emerges in today's rapidly changing economic environment, a role which inevitably undermines the institution of the family.
in writing. ‒ this report by the committee on women's rights and gender equality aims to support women entrepreneurs at all levels of the market. it also raises key issues for the development of business in general. of course i voted for it.
i would like to point out, mr president, two figures which are indicative of our failure to act on the burning issue of youth employment. five million young people unemployed in europe, two million job vacancies: why don't we provide young people with the skills they lack so that these vacancies can be turned into jobs with potential? member states have resources to improve the qualifications and skills of young people who want to move up, but it is clear that in some countries pseudo-apprenticeship is becoming a habit. we must now press the member states to activate the systems for monitoring and monitoring the absorption of community funds so that apprenticeship can be transferred directly to the workplace. at the same time, we must encourage young, outward-looking entrepreneurship by promoting young entrepreneurs in erasmus and by encouraging cooperation between educational institutions and business. the commission has already taken a number of important steps in this direction, and i am sure that the council will take them in the near future.
in writing. ‒ with this report, parliament is trying to strengthen the debate on combating the particularly high youth unemployment, especially in countries like ours. the report stresses the need to strengthen the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative with additional funding, by strengthening training programmes and by creating equal opportunities for all.
in writing. ‒ the we have discussed today the issue of youth unemployment and the possibilities for combating it through the activation of the yei. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat the problem of drug addiction, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take action to combat it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is our duty to seek and implement policies which will give a new impetus to the european economy, helping young people to enter the productive process more smoothly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am glad that the commission has taken this step.
in writing. ‒ the the worrying levels of youth unemployment are one of the most intractable problems in the eu today. the report also contains a number of recommendations for action to combat youth unemployment, including the need to ensure that the young people in the regions are not excluded from the labour market. firstly, the report argues that a primary factor in solving the problem that must be taken into account is globalization. the report then argues that trade unions play an important and beneficial role in young people's civil society. finally, it stresses the usefulness of internships or apprenticeships abroad and supports eures and erasmus+.
in writing. ‒ the the worrying levels of youth unemployment are one of the most intractable problems in the eu today. the report also contains a number of recommendations for action to combat youth unemployment, including the need to ensure that the young people in the regions are not excluded from the labour market. first, the report argues that a primary factor in solving the problem that must be taken into account is globalization. it is also argued that the role played by trade union organisations in young people's civil society is important. internships or apprenticeships abroad are also strongly promoted and the alleged usefulness of eures and erasmus+ is emphasised. finally, the existence of ngos as a means and tool for promoting entrepreneurship is emphasised and promoted. i therefore vote against this report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to identify the reasons why the youth unemployment rate is still increasing and to propose solutions. an alarmingly high level of youth unemployment is nowadays one of the most challenging problems in the eu. it is deplorable though that, despite the initiatives of the european institutions to reduce youth unemployment, there are two million unfilled vacancies. the rapporteur explores two main fields that could constitute an opportunity for participation in the labour market: business creation and self-employment. despite the fact that the report acknowledges the need for efficient and sustainable quality job creation in europe, i decided to abstain. in my view, this position makes it possible to express criticism towards its overemphasis on the role of entrepreneurship in reducing youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i refer to my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 18 january 2016 and note that i abstain from voting on the report on skills policies to combat youth unemployment. i would also like to stress that this report is not complete.
in writing. ‒ the the worrying levels of youth unemployment are one of the most intractable problems in the eu today. the report also contains a number of recommendations for action to combat youth unemployment, including the need to ensure that the young people in the regions are not excluded from the labour market. first, the report argues that a primary factor in solving the problem that must be taken into account is globalization. it is also argued that the role played by trade unions in young people's civil society is beneficial. internships or apprenticeships abroad are also strongly promoted and eures and erasmus+ are highlighted. finally, the existence of ngos as a tool for promoting entrepreneurship is emphasised and highlighted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as i do for any initiative that seeks to increase jobs in europe and reduce unemployment, especially among young people. we must support the younger generations in every way possible.
in writing. ‒ the the european commission has stressed that completing the digital single market is one of its priorities. the european parliament's present report, which i voted in favour of, highlights the challenges to be met and expresses its support for the 16 initiatives which the european commission is expected to take. in particular, particular attention is being paid to consumer protection, the protection of personal data, the promotion of investment in infrastructure necessary for the digital market, the preservation of the versatility of the electronic media, as well as issues that have been silenced by the european commission such as addressing the impact on the labour market and the structure of society.
in writing. ‒ the the question of the single market has long been a starting point for building a positive framework of rules and structures for the benefit of the citizens of the union. but to do so, we must examine all aspects of the matter in the common interest of all. the lack of references and solutions to the issues of neutrality and privacy is not in the interests of the europeans, and that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the the digital single market is the modernized version of the repressive and illiberal eu, which is trying to expand into still free areas such as the internet. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. ‒ the the digital single market is the modernized version of the repressive and illiberal eu, which is trying to expand into still free areas such as the internet. the digitisation of the public sector can solve many problems and save resources, but it can also reduce the importance of personal data and increase the costs of protecting it exponentially. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. for these reasons, my vote is against the move towards an act on the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the road to a legislative act for the digital single market because i consider it to be complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the digital single market is a modernized version of the repressive and illiberal eu, which is trying to expand into still free areas such as the internet. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, in particular the new rules on the protection of personal data and the new rules on the protection of personal data. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this act as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which was a key committee. the digital single market is a necessity for the market and the economy as well as for citizens themselves. this report, after extensive dialogue at all levels, has produced a text that sets out the necessary conditions for creating a flexible and more efficient digital environment, with multiple benefits for consumers, businesses, the economy, creativity and communications.
mr president, a common line runs through the decisions of the european council and is the deepening of emu, i.e. the uniform application of the anti-union policy for capital gains, competitiveness councils and budgetary councils for automatic cuts in wages, pensions and social benefits and for the integration of markets. these are complemented by the escalation of imperialist interventions and wars, with the anti-terrorist campaign becoming yet another pretext for conquering new markets for energy sources and energy routes. all of this is creating unemployment, poverty, wars, refugee drama. the council has decided to intensify the crackdown on refugees and migrants, to create a hot spot for the sorting of cheap labour that will cross the smart border while the majority will be intercepted or drowned in the aegean, deported or stored in greece. the creation of a european border and coast guard force, a force that will have the right to intervene without requiring the consent of the states, puts greece's sovereign rights at risk of the eu's interests and promotes bargaining for the co-management of the aegean with turkey under the euro-nato umbrella. it has never ceased to prove every day that the european union and the capitalism it serves are unchanging and that only the struggle of the peoples can radically reverse this situation.
madam president, when the commission announces grandiose plans to deal with migration and terrorism, i am reassured that we must either change the commissioners, or their advisers, or all of them together. jihadists kill innocent people, but you decided to give three billion euros to turkey, which helps, arms and negotiates with the islamic state. i therefore call on you to accept turkey into the union and, in turn, to let greece leave so that all your problems can be solved automatically. where's the relocation and redistribution plan? where's the readmission plan? you tell us that a european border and coast guard corps will be set up. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, please relieve us of the obligation to listen to your nonsense. how much time and money will it take to get this corps operational ? on the basis of which treaty and legislation will it operate? where will the necessary funds come from? have you taken account of the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity? the treaty on european union expressly states that the protection of national borders is the exclusive responsibility of the member states. in italy you are planning to involve the european mediterranean naval force, a force which, with the permission and coordination of greece, may well operate in the aegean.
madam president, the flows of refugees and migrants continue unabated, and in fact in a ratio of two migrants to one refugee. the turkish airlines case is typical, for forty euros they are transporting thousands of migrants from the maghreb and morocco to the european union, because it is known that from these countries you do not need a visa to go to the european union. the smugglers continue to operate unhindered; in the last three weeks of 2016 alone, 77 people lost their lives in the aegean sea, including countless young people and children. the real solution is to end the conflict in syria, it is to return refugees to their homes and stay safe in their homes. the solution cannot be to build walls on the national borders of the countries of the european union. the european union's external borders, the external borders of the peoples of europe, need to be protected and solidarised.
madam president, two are the key conditions for dealing with the most urgent of crises we are experiencing. the migration crisis requires the implementation of the commitments of the member states and the monitoring of the agreements with third countries to implement them. the first is that it is time to consider how we can activate a sanction mechanism for non-implementation of compulsory relocation in the member states. i firmly believe that the imbalance in the contribution to the migration crisis is a thorn in the side of the foundations of the union. the small, the weak and those who are stricken by crisis cannot bear disproportionate burdens to the strong. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external relations are not affected by the turkish government's actions. in the last fortnight alone, 30,000 people have arrived in greece from turkey, very few of them refugees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the information they need to make their decisions.
the european union has not yet taken a decision on the question of the right of asylum, and it is not yet clear whether the european union will take a decision on the matter. he let it build, he allowed it to swell, and now he doesn't have the courage to solve it the way it was supposed to. the solution to the problem is not to build walls on the border and thus to abolish the schengen treaty in practice. the solution to the problem is to stop the wars that create refugees and migrants. the european union has already made a major contribution to the fight against terrorism, and we are convinced that the european union must continue to do so. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. only in this way could such a power on the one hand prevent the official state from exploiting illegal immigrants in seeking to resolve its national issues and on the other hand prevent corrupt state bodies from speculating at the expense of these poor people. on the other hand, the greek coastguard forces can and do monitor and guard the borders of greece.
mr president, the final stage of the peace process between the colombian government and the farc rebels will be completed in may 2016. on 15 december, an agreement was signed to compensate the victims of the fifty-year war, while peace negotiations to limit military operations have been underway since 2012. the peace process is expected first to put an end to the oldest and longest conflict in latin america, a confrontation that has claimed at least 220,000 victims and led to political persecution of opposition and trade union leaders. it also provides for compensation for victims of the conflict and measures to combat drug trafficking and to develop the rural economy. it is therefore necessary to conclude the peace negotiations in colombia in order to start investigations into the disappeared from the long-running conflict and to set up a special committee to clarify what happened in the civil war. the peace process can lead to the creation of a democratic colombia, provided that the paramilitary organizations are dissolved.
the tragedy of the syrian people continues, with thousands of dead and millions of internally and externally displaced people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but despite the provision of humanitarian aid, just last weekend we had five deaths from starvation in the city of madaya, while daesh murdered 135 civilians and kidnapped about 400. we must take a more active role in order to implement the timetable consistently and in order to have a united and peaceful syria, away from dangerous geo-strategic scenarios that threaten the countries of the region. finally, i would like to refer to the issue of the refugee crisis. it is obvious that de-escalation is not possible without normalisation in syria. it is also necessary that the european leaders implement the decisions taken, particularly those concerning relocation, and not return to their countries after each summit determined to undermine the agreement by their inaction.
madam president, the defeat of daesh depends directly on the end of the civil war in syria and the launching of the peace process for a political solution to the syrian problem and the democratic establishment of the syrian state, with a new constitution and democratic elections. at the same time, the forces that support and cooperate with the jihadists must be isolated, and this concerns primarily turkey, saudi arabia and qatar, which are supporting and helping the jihadists. instead, the european union not only tolerates ankara's games but also gives it a dowry of 3 billion euros for turkey's alleged help in the refugee problem. in the refugee camp, where turkey helps the slave trade that transports thousands of refugees every day to the aegean islands, which cannot tolerate other refugees and illegal immigrants. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the refugees are not forced to return to turkey, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain to us why he has not done so.
the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the syrian regime is a threat to the peace process, but it is prepared to accept the fact that the syrian regime is a threat to peace. it prefers to deal with the matter in general, as if it were a literary matter, without taking the measures which can solve the problem. time is running out, the humanitarian crisis in the country is worsening day by day, many civilians are losing their lives either from the ongoing fighting or from the criminal action of daesh, but the european union is simply watching the events passively. there are few and very simple moves to be made. first of all, we must isolate those countries which are supporting the jihadists, namely turkey, qatar, saudi arabia. secondly, russia, president assad, the syrian kurds and the syrian opposition must be invited directly to negotiations under the auspices of the european union. they must decide on the form of the new government of the country and together turn against isis to neutralize it and end this bloodshed, which is not a credit to civilized humanity or the european union.
madam president, the european directive on the reinforcement of the presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings which we are discussing today is a step towards further safeguarding fundamental rights. it is particularly important to clarify that the presumption of innocence under that directive also includes any administrative side-effects of criminal prosecution, such as, for example, the automatic posting of an official on leave. it must be accepted that such provisions of national law are legitimate only where they are necessary measures having regard to the nature and the type of the criminal offence and provided that they are of a temporary nature and that their consequences are completely removed in the event of the defendant being acquitted in criminal proceedings. the exception to the presumption of innocence for administrative proceedings provided for in the sixth recital in the preamble to the directive concerns only the autonomous actions of the administrative authorities.
madam president, since it is quite late and we have been following the debate for several hours trying to catch our eye, i would like to ask you what you intend to do in the next debate. will you give the floor to only three colleagues or will you apply the catch-the-eye procedure? it is important to know this so that we do not expect unnecessary things. if you are going to give the floor to only two or three colleagues, then obviously we cannot just sit and listen. please tell us what you're going to do so we can know.
madam president, i too would like to join my speakers in saying that basically everything important has already been said. let me just say that i too consider this issue to be extremely important. i would like to say to the commissioner that i consider it important that what at first sight seems to be a mere formality, that the directive is now being replaced by a regulation. i was responsible for the implementation of directives in the czech republic for five years and i am well aware of the differences between the various national regulations. that means one directive and 28 different implementations. so if we really want to create a single market with uniform rules, i think it is much better to use a regulation which simply applies as a single piece of legislation to the whole of the european union. so the transition from directives to regulations is, in my view, extremely important in this case, and of course, in terms of content, what we are discussing today and what will hopefully apply is much better than the legislation that has been in place in a number of fragmented directives. my colleagues have already spoken about the individual products, about the fact that there will be uniform rules for the requirements for these products. i would like to thank the rapporteurs in particular and to comment on the debate in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, where it was possible to rationalize the requirements that should be imposed in particular on products that have the form of personal protective equipment. i think that's very good. thank you, and i support the motion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised. it is clear that economic globalisation and trade liberalization have led to the shift of production to developing countries. in the united states, however, the desire to reduce costs and increase profits has resulted in weaker safety standards. the result was that we had goods and many appliances in europe which proved to be dangerous, especially gas appliances, which were imported from china and caused a lot of accidents because of carbon monoxide leakage. in fact, in countries with energy poverty such as greece, which has been hit by the memorandum, these incidents are unfortunately even more dramatic. it is important that these measures be taken.
gue/ngl), in writing. we have heard today fine words from the dutch prime minister on the history and future of europe, but no concrete plans for the dutch presidency which has just begun. we have heard that the refugee flows must be reduced immediately but no idea how this can be done, nor how to force the erdoğan regime to end its tolerance for turkish slave traders who exploit the refugee tragedy in a shameful way. we have also heard good wishes for the european economy and that the agreements must be respected. i would remind you that among the agreements reached are not only the provisions of the treaties on budgetary discipline but also the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights on the right to a decent standard of living, health protection, social security and others which are systematically violated through austerity policies. europe needs a change of course before it is too late. we need more solidarity both between european states and within their societies, by strengthening the weakest to make a common path possible. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the launch of the automated exchange of vehicle registration data (avd) in latvia as it is part of the overall framework of crossborder and judicial cooperation between the member states of the european union in criminal matters. this will improve the exchange of information between the authorities responsible for preventing and investigating criminal offences.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the although the resolution on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange on vehicle registration in latvia contains positive elements, i am not convinced that it ensures the exclusion of possible access to all sensitive personal data of citizens and, in this sense, i have doubts about the positive impact of the resolution. that's why i chose abstention.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i believe that there are still legislative gaps and procedural ambiguities in crossborder cooperation to combat organised crime and terrorism, as well as in the implementation of the prum decision and the european standard for the exchange of information.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of vehicle registration data (avd) in latvia as there are still legislative gaps and procedural ambiguities in relation to crossborder cooperation to combat organised crime and terrorism, as well as in relation to the implementation of the prum decision and the european standard for the exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ this report is a consent procedure to an eu council implementing decision, regarding cross-border data exchange with latvia regarding vehicle registration data. the council decided through the decision to authorise latvia to receive and supply personal data regarding vehicles. the gue/ngl has been opposed to this parliament report, since this report is not only on how to safeguard data protection but also on prior to any exchange of personal data. given that data protection and data exchange are two important considerations i preferred to abstain.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated data exchange on vehicle registration (avr) in latvia because i consider it to be complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i believe that there are legislative gaps and procedural ambiguities in crossborder cooperation to combat organised crime and terrorism, as well as in the implementation of the prum decision and the european standard for the exchange of information.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the vote on the technical report on latvia. the report was adopted by the committee responsible by a large majority.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it strengthens certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and provides the necessary guarantees in criminal proceedings conducted at european union level. it thus strikes the appropriate balance required between repressive measures and the right of every individual to a fair trial. i believe that the introduction of rules governing the presumption of innocence is an important step towards safeguarding this balance.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right of the accused to be present at his trial in criminal proceedings is a particularly positive move aimed at not only maintaining but also strengthening existing rules and rights for the benefit of citizens. issues such as that of the presumption of innocence are more prominent today than ever. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the fundamental provisions are those relating to the right to a fair trial in criminal proceedings, the establishment of rules on certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right of the accused to be present at trial, equal and high level of protection with full guarantee of procedural provisions. at union level, this should translate into adoption and/or equalisation with the highest level of protection that may be applicable in a member state. the arbitrariness and abuse of the pre-trial and criminal proceedings in the case of the political persecution of golden dawn in greece demonstrate that the european institutions are selectively legislating and applying criminal procedure à la carte when they remain silent or when they avoid reacting to the violation of the fundamental principles of 'in dubio pro reo' (in doubt in favour of the accused) and the presumption of innocence.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the right to a fair trial in criminal proceedings is fundamental, as are the need for rules on certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right of the accused to be present at trial, and for equal and high level of protection with full guarantee of procedural provisions. at union level, this translates into adoption and/or equalisation with the highest level of protection that may apply in a member state. the arbitrariness and abuse of the pre-trial and criminal proceedings in the case of the political persecution of golden dawn in greece, however, prove that the european institutions apply the case law selectively and apply criminal democracy à la carte, by remaining silent and not reacting to the violation of fundamental principles such as the principle of "in dubio pro reo" (in doubt in favor of the accused) and the presumption of innocence. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission had to establish minimum procedural rights for suspects or accused persons, and to address the issue of presumption of innocence, in order to promote better cooperation. until now, we have three directives on this topic: the right to interpretation, the right to information and the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings. i voted in favour since it improves four important elements: statements must not reflect an opinion that the person is guilty; the directive applies also to criminal proceedings; authorities must not use coercion in order to obtain information from a suspect or an accused person; last but not least it defines what the right to remain silent is.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right of the accused to be present at his trial in criminal proceedings because it is a complete and well-founded report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the right to a fair trial in criminal proceedings is fundamental, as are the need for rules on certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right of the accused to be present at trial, and for equal and high level of protection with full guarantee of procedural provisions. at union level, this translates into adoption and/or equalisation with the highest level of protection that may apply in a member state. the arbitrariness and abuse of the pre-trial and criminal proceedings in the case of the political persecution of golden dawn in greece, however, prove that the european institutions apply the case law selectively and apply criminal democracy à la carte, by remaining silent and not reacting to the violation of fundamental principles such as the principle of "in dubio pro reo" (in doubt in favor of the accused) and the presumption of innocence.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, following the suggestion made by mrs griesbeck, rapporteur, in this report for which the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs was responsible.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's regulation in question, which i voted in favour of, brings the current legislation into line with the provision on the legislative package on goods adopted in 2008 by commission decision 768/2008, which referred to a common framework for the marketing of products. this concerns the requirements for the design and manufacture of personal protective equipment made available on the market in order to ensure the protection of users and the rules on their free movement within the union. it also contains rules on market surveillance and obligations for economic operators and employers. finally, the initial report was adopted in the committee on internal market and consumer protection in april 2015 and four tripartite dialogues followed with the aim of reaching an agreement at first reading.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the vote on the renewal of the regulatory framework for personal protective equipment must always be timely, since it directly affects a large number of economic operators, while its implications affect all citizens. in this context, i believe that any attempt to modernise and harmonise the existing rules has a positive impact on europe and that is why i decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the welfare of the professionals in the various sectors who have to use personal protective equipment is a matter of concern to all citizens of the member states. we believe that upgrading and updating existing legislation and related directives will close many gaps in user safety. the safety gap created by products imported mainly from asia needs to be filled and we hope that this will be reduced.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the welfare of professionals in the various sectors who have to use personal protective equipment is a matter of concern to all citizens of the member states. i believe that upgrading and updating existing legislation and related directives will close many gaps in user safety. i also believe that the dimensions of the safety problem posed by imported products from asia will be mainly reduced and for this reason i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 19/1/2016 and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the welfare of professionals in the various sectors who have to use personal protective equipment is a matter of concern to all citizens of the member states. i believe that upgrading and updating existing legislation and related directives will close many gaps in user safety. i also believe that the safety problem posed by imports from asia will be reduced.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the committee on the internal market and consumer protection approved the report by mrs vicky ford. i also voted in favour as a member of the same committee.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the vote on the european parliament's report on household and non-household appliances intended for certain specific gas applications and on their components intended to be incorporated into such appliances. this report is of major importance because it concerns the placing on the market of these products and the protection of consumers when using these products. in conclusion, the group of the party of european socialists is in favour of the application of basic rules to avoid any poisoning by gas leaks which are harmful to the health and safety of consumers.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas appliances has economic as well as ecological implications for the daily lives of all european citizens. the commission's proposals are therefore of particular interest. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and it is a very good one.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the safety of users or those in places with gas appliances is a fairly important issue, if we also take into account that gas as a fuel is becoming more and more widespread. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the safety of users or those in areas with gas appliances is a very important issue, if we also take into account that gas as a fuel is becoming more and more widespread. i am in full agreement with the updating and the attempt to harmonize the rules on these appliances and i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas appliances.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas appliances because i consider it incomplete.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the safety of users or those in areas with gas appliances is a very important issue, especially given that the use of gas as a fuel is becoming more widespread. it is essential to update and harmonise the rules for these devices.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which was adopted by a large majority in the committee responsible.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the in this report, parliament and the council propose the implementation of a regulation on cableway installations in order to bring this legislation into line with the provisions of the commodities legislation package adopted in 2008, and more specifically with commission decision 768/2008 establishing a common framework for the marketing of products. the new regulation proposed in the report i voted for is intended to improve the market surveillance and the safety of consumers and other users of cableway installations. the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament also managed to make explicit reference to the precautionary principle and to the need to improve the safety of consumers and other users.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ strengthening the framework of consumer protection rules at pan-european level must remain a constant focus of our attention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the railway infrastructure is not compromised. i therefore consider this resolution to be a positive one and have decided to vote in favour of it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i think this is a positive piece of legislation because the use of wire mesh in facilities which affect human lives, whether for recreational or professional purposes, requires very serious safety checks and certifications. the same applies, of course, to the transport of products. the important thing is that all these measures are respected and that there are no interests that exploit human life.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cable installations because the use of wire mesh in installations, whether for recreational or professional purposes, with potential impact on human lives, requires very serious checks and certifications for safety issues. the same applies, of course, to the transport of products. the important thing is that all the measures laid down by the law be observed and that there be no interests exploiting human life.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cableway installations for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 19/1/2016 and because it is a comprehensive and well-informed report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the use of wire mesh in installations, whether for recreational or professional purposes, with a potential impact on human lives, requires the most serious checks and certifications for safety issues. the same applies, of course, to the transport of products. the important thing is that all the measures laid down by the law be observed and that there be no interests exploiting human life.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i am a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, responsible for the substance of this report. i voted in favour of voting on the final text, as did the great majority of my colleagues from the various political groups.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the resolution also calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the commission is also informed that the delegated regulation amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences cannot enter into force. we are in favour of abolishing the eu-kyrgyzstan agreement, but we consider that this motion for a resolution serves other interests and is a manifestation of the already existing lack of democracy in the eu. we also believe that the commission, under the pretext of defending human rights, is pursuing a foreign policy which is contrary to the interests of european citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are in favour of abolishing the eu-kyrgyzstan agreement because this motion for a resolution serves other interests and is another indication of the already existing lack of democracy in the eu. the commission is also trying to pursue a foreign policy which is contrary to the interests of european citizens, under the pretext of defending human rights.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 25 november 2015 amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences. i am not going to go into the details of the proposal, because i think it is a complete and well-founded proposal.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the according to the resolution, the government of the kyrgyz republic has not met its obligations regarding standards for accession as an gsp+ beneficiary country but instead continued human rights violations, discrimination, inequalities and the blocking of freedom of expression. this means that the delegated regulation amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences cannot enter into force. the resolution in question serves other interests and is another indication of the already existing lack of democracy in the eu. the commission is also trying to pursue a foreign policy which is contrary to the interests of european citizens, under the pretext of defending human rights.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the debate on the need to review and improve the rules governing the production and marketing of food is by definition of paramount importance. in particular, cases concerning the nutrition of children and newborns require careful consideration. i therefore find the nature of this resolution, which stresses the need for a stricter regulatory framework, very important. i therefore decided to vote in favour of it, considering that it is protective of the whole of european society.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the delegated regulation does not contain adequate measures to protect infants and young children from processed foods. this motion for a resolution contains the objections raised and calls on the commission to delay the adoption of this delegated act until its own report on preparations for young children has been published. the efsa's views on the review of the evidence on sugar and early consumption of processed foods in relation to the recommendations on optimal nutrition for infants and young children, namely in relation to the impairment of breastfeeding and the exacerbation of childhood obesity, are also expected to be published. it is clear that the delegated regulation should not enter into force.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on this subject, as the delegated regulation does not contain sufficient measures to protect infants and young children from processed food.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 609/2013 of the european parliament and of the council with regard to specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods because i consider it to be a complete and well-founded proposal.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the delegated regulation does not contain adequate measures to protect infants and young children from processed foods. this motion for a resolution objects, calls on the commission to delay the adoption of this delegated act until its own report on infant formulae has been published and until efsa has published its review of the evidence on sugar and early consumption of processed foods in the light of the recommendations on optimal nutrition for infants and young children, and in particular on the undermining of breastfeeding and the exacerbation of childhood obesity, and finally wishes to inform the commission that the delegated regulation cannot enter into force.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that we are facing a historic event, namely the conclusion of an agreement between the government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia on transitional justice, an agreement which will be a decisive step towards achieving a definitive peace and putting an end to this long-standing armed conflict in latin america. the european union must not let this historic moment be lost and is therefore called upon to support in every way the talks which will bring an end to 50 years of armed conflict.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against this motion for a resolution, because it is another interference in the internal affairs of a third country. the union has not been appointed by anyone as a global watchdog to require independent states to comply with the laws it lays down. the european union must not intervene in the internal affairs of countries, especially in matters of peace and security.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this motion for a resolution because it is another interference in the internal affairs of a third country. the union has not been appointed by anyone as a global watchdog to require independent states to comply with the laws it lays down. the european union must not intervene in the internal affairs of countries, especially in matters of peace and security.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution in favour of the peace process in colombia for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 19 january 2016 and because i consider the report to be complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the european union must approach the affairs of foreign states, and especially of non-member countries, carefully and in accordance with international law. any attempt to interfere is a gross interference in the internal affairs of the countries, especially in matters of peace and security.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution because stability and the defence of peace are our primary concerns. the text is intended to promote and defend peace and human rights in colombia.
the commission madam president, last october the head of the red cross said that yemen, after five months of war, is like syria after five years of war. since march 2015, ten thousand people have lost their lives, many of them civilians, including 630 children. at the same time, a large-scale humanitarian crisis is unfolding as, according to the un, out of a total population of 21 million, 19 million lack access to drinking water, 14 million lack access to food and some 320 000 children are malnourished due to the air and sea blockade imposed by saudi arabia on a country that imports to meet 90% of its needs. after the bombing of a refugee camp, schools and health facilities, a strike on a doctors without borders medical centre was added to the list of collateral losses, while the arab alliance was accused by international observers of using cluster bombs. the european union has a moral duty to acknowledge the war crimes committed in yemen. the commission must propose measures against those responsible.
the commission madam president, the european union must finally stop turning a blind eye to the flagrant violations of the rights of the kurdish people by the turkish army in the southeastern provinces of the country. the turkish army's brutality has forced 200,000 people, mostly kurds, to flee their homes. whole cities have been shut down and residents are trapped by the curfew. elected mayors and politicians of the pro-kurdish hdp party are being prosecuted while others are already in prison, in an orgy of authoritarianism by the turkish government. according to turkish media, the turkish government wants to have this so-called anti-terrorist operation completed by spring. we warn that the european union is facing an unprecedented escalation of military violence and that the time available to it to intervene within the framework of international law is limited. we therefore call on the european union to take immediate action against turkey and to close its door to europe, rather than to incite ankara and tolerate its orientalist tendencies. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the european union must find ways of forcing turkey to finally apply human rights standards. this must be done by taking measures because, so far, the european union has done nothing but to harass turkey, to tolerate human rights violations not only against the kurds but also against other turkish citizens, to tolerate violations of international law, to tolerate the present occupation of 37% of cyprus, to tolerate the presence of troops in a country which is a member of the european union. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that turkey understands what it must do. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the erdoğan regime has been condemning the people of south-eastern turkey to starvation through the curfews it has imposed for weeks. it attacks kurdish towns and villages with heavy weapons and systematically violates the rights of their residents to life, personal liberty and security, and the prohibition of torture. the deliberate slaughter and displacement of hundreds of thousands of kurds from their homes is in violation of both international law and the turkish constitution. the erdoğan regime denies access to independent observers in kurdish areas and persecutes numerous intellectuals who have denounced its inhumane practices. the european union, by tolerating these crimes, is betraying its founding values of respect for human dignity and fundamental rights. attempting to appease the erdoğan regime is wrong. the only language he can understand is the language of political and economic sanctions.
s & d) and the madam president, very worthy colleagues have described accurately the situation in south-eastern turkey following the escalation of the conflict. i will not repeat their words, but i will repeat the words of selahattin demirtaş, chairman of the hdp. the hdp is a party that is massively supported by the kurdish minority and not only by it. the hdp did not cause the war, the hdp does not lead the conflict, it does not control it. on one side is the hand of president erdoğan and on the other is the hand of the pkk. that is what president demirtaş said. i would suggest to the house and to commissioner hahn that we call on the turkish national assembly to take a bold initiative which will lead to a ceasefire and to a peace process. and i want to add that if it takes courage to take up arms to protect yourself against the asymmetrical violence of government, it takes even greater courage to overcome challenges and lead the peace process.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, turkey is flirting with authoritarianism. erdoğan is building, with europe's tolerance, his modern turkish empire on the corpses of kurdish civilians and the misery of millions of refugees, on the ruins of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, on the non-existence of freedom of expression, the independence of the judiciary and freedom of the press, with mass purges in public administration and with arrests and accusations of national treason against dissident academics and kurdish citizens and politicians. curfews, military and police violence create ghost towns with hundreds of thousands of displaced people. turkey is indifferent to the action plan you agreed on the refugee and traffickers. the number of refugees who have crossed the aegean this month on eight or nine buoys is estimated at 31 000. so who in this room can argue that this situation points to a safe country? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the commission madam president, the situation in southeastern turkey is shrouded in secrecy and silence. unfortunately, this too is due to the tolerance of the european union. the western media only reproduce news concerning casualties of turkish security forces, diligently concealing in their reports the crimes against humanity committed by the bloodthirsty erdoğan regime. the geographical location of the fighters for the right to life and well-being of the kurds is a conduit and bridge for illegal acts and dealings between turkey and the jihadists of the islamic state. the european union must plan its geostrategic and geopolitical moves very carefully on a chessboard characterized by a huge conflict of interests and a very large concentration of opposing factions. the chaos between the kurds of turkey, syria and iraq, daesh, wahhabi groups, shiites, sunnis and christians, with the overt or covert involvement of foreign powers, will lead fatally to a conflict of global dimensions.
the commission madam president, the european union's agreement with georgia, moldova and ukraine signed in 2014 provides for the removal of most of the customs restrictions between the european union and these countries, resulting in agricultural products from these countries flooding into europe at a time when greek and other european farmers are facing huge economic problems due to the crisis and the russian embargo. in addition, the free trade agreement to be implemented from 2016 will boost large enterprises at the expense of small and inefficient enterprises in these three countries. we are also concerned about the corruption in these countries, where the rule of law does not operate. finally, i wonder what would have happened to this agreement if the greeks, italians and other citizens had been called upon to decide by referendum, as is now the case with the dutch referendum.
the commission madam president, the european union is pushing for the implementation of the association agreements and free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine. but these agreements are creating problems in some member states. in particular, free trade agreements create conditions of unfair competition for agricultural and livestock products from the countries of the european south, including my own country, greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. moldova, for example, has established bilateral relations with the pseudo-state of turkish-occupied northern cyprus. the commission has also proposed that the council of ministers adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union customs union with the republic of moldova. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in the occupied territories, which is a violation of international law prohibiting de facto recognition of occupied territories. it is also an insult to cyprus, which is a member of the european union. given that, how can you ask us to approve these deals?
the commission madam president, the imperialist contradictions in the balkans are becoming dangerously acute because of their geostrategic location next to areas torn by rivalries and wars, which are a transit point for refugees and energy pipelines, a field of major investment and a bridgehead for the european union and nato in areas of great interest to the russian bourgeoisie. the european union and nato's military intervention brought about the breakup of yugoslavia, established protectorates and cultivated ethnic and religious divisions among the people to serve eurasian interests and the local bourgeoisie. the association agreement under discussion recognizes de facto one such protectorate, kosovo. the greek government has a huge responsibility, and it is doing the same. it is fuelling nationalism, altruism, bigotry, territorial claims and pushing for border changes, such as the officially threatened union of albania and kosovo into a single state that will harbour ambitions against neighbouring countries such as fyrom and greece. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the people must be alert. it is in their interest to oppose imperialist plans and overthrow capitalism which sows wars and misery and refugees... (the president interrupts)
the commission madam president, on 10 june 1999 the un security council placed kosovo under transitional leadership, creating a state within yugoslavia and later serbia. the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is a political entity, and it is a political entity. seventeen years later and 627 in total since the battle of kosovo between the united serbs, bosnians and croats against the ottoman turks, which halted their advance into western europe, some unhistorical and naive politicians are pushing for the european union-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement. that's a crime. kosovo is not a state, nor is there a kosovar nation. we must not forget the crimes of tito's communists who transformed states and literally violated historical truth, creating macedonian dreams and kosovar aberrations. the accession of kosovo will be an acceptance of the forcible change of the borders of a state by the unilateral secession of serbian territory, based on ethnic albanian motives just as you all sought to make happen with the turkish invasion and occupation of the northern part of cyprus.
the commission mr president, the communist party of greece condemns the joint resolution which provides for the creation of a permanent military-political headquarters for enterprises on the basis of article 42 of the euro-constitution. both the setting up of this new european union headquarters and the very activation of the so-called mutual defence clause signal an escalation of the imperialist intervention in syria and the wider region with the victims of the peoples. they are an extension of the militarization of the european union towards the creation of a euro-army in conjunction with nato. you are making the peoples bleed over whether the qatar pipeline will pass through syria, a project of the united states and the european union, or the russian pipeline through iran. didn't you do the same thing in libya or iraq and afghanistan? the pretexts and the preaching of solidarity by the united states, the european union and nato and their governments are not convincing. their imperialist plans have the active support of the syriza/anel government. the greek people must oppose the imperialist wars by demanding that greece be completely excluded from them. the wealth belongs to the people, they alone can and must reap it.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, for the first time we have the mutual assistance clause activated. it was said that the values of the european union were under attack and that the security of european citizens was threatened and that solidarity of all with all, impartial and generous, was required, because human values have no national identity. but who is the enemy, gentlemen? 'hell is other people' said jean-paul sartre, and that is the danger: the way we defend human values devalues them and becomes a fuel for this hell. who and why bombed and destroyed these countries and thousands of refugees are drowning in the mediterranean today? who armed the jihadists? does anyone think that the obligation to provide military aid and assistance will limit or stop this situation? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. a change that will completely exclude policies of intervention and exclusion and will be oriented exclusively towards the use of non-military measures aimed at poverty reduction, social and economic development and symmetrical cooperation.
the commission mr president, in accordance with the mutual defence clause laid down in article 42 (7) of the treaty and article 222 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, it is expressly provided that actions in support of a member state which has been the victim of a terrorist attack shall concern only its territory, at the request of its political authorities. we therefore stress that this clause cannot be used to infringe the sovereignty of any state. the french request to support military missions in africa and the middle east is therefore legally unfounded. it should be noted here that these military missions are at best adventurous and do not contribute to the fight against terrorism, as was clearly shown in the syrian crisis in 2011. moreover, as an independent think tank study points out, and as is constantly confirmed by leaked information in the press, in addition to daesh, a large part of the syrian armed opposition which the french republic has warmly supported is made up of islamist groups, a fact which reveals the quality of these organizations and a fact which european governments pretend to ignore. the member states must stay away from external interventions and imperialist wars.
the commission mr president, article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union on the mutual defence clause is a high-level commitment by member states to support another state which is either currently under attack on its territory or is threatened with future military aggression. this is a very good decision which shows the determination of the european union to show solidarity with its member states. but how much do we really believe in that commitment? for many years, as you are well aware, turkey has threatened greece, a member of the european union, with a casus belli if it exercises its legitimate rights. turkey also does not recognise the existence of another eu member state, cyprus, and threatens it accordingly. what is the european union's attitude to this outrage? has he demanded that turkey stop behaving in this way? if in this simple case the european union has failed to show determination, how can we expect it to show determination when things are difficult and require military intervention?
the commission mr president, the european union is one of the major players on the world chessboard with the potential to influence international developments to a significant degree. it must therefore work closely with the un to deal with the serious issues of concern to the international community. the most serious and urgent of these is immigration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it is not reasonable to try to welcome migrants into europe and not try to eliminate the causes of migration in order to stop it. we must not only be concerned about the human rights of migrants and then allow them to commit crimes in the countries where they are hosted. in addition, we are not gaining anything by condemning the illegal movement and trafficking of people but leaving the traffickers unchecked. finally, we are not showing seriousness or determination when we allow turkey to play tricks on the european union by pretending that it wants to contribute to solving the migration problem, and when we tolerate its blackmailing us in order to speed up its accession procedures.
the commission the european union must also take account of the human rights situation in turkey and skopje. i take this opportunity to emphasize my total and categorical opposition to the initiative of the croatian mep marijana petir to set up an informal friendship group called 'friends of macedonia' to support skopje. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the rights and freedoms that it enjoys under the treaty. i therefore denounce before this house the provocative and illegal creation of the philosophical group 'friends of macedonia' and i ask the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, to take the necessary steps to ensure that the un resolutions on the name of skopje are fully implemented in this case as well. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, i would like to address my colleague and tell him that i have raised a serious issue: skopje, which is known as fyrom. but you illegally use the name macedonia. you must know, those who created this group, that what you are doing is a violation of the way the european union operates, which recognizes skopje as fyrom. understand this, once and for all.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, today dabiq magazine under the title "just terror" writes verbatim: let paris be a lesson for those nations that wish to take heed. we are aware that the publication of the photographs of the terrorists who attacked paris the other day is an expression of the will to promote a policy of terror. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. today, according to europol's investigations, there are between six and five thousand european citizens who are terrorists. are we going to let this go on? how can we control it? what have the european union and the council done? we have made some very important steps. our answer to terrorists is that fear will not prevail. but how can this be controlled? there are structured groups, there are terrorist networks, there are targets: human lives, the marginalization of europe, the closure of borders. the policy we are pursuing is very correct and we cannot confuse migration with terrorism, because the one phenomenon has nothing to do with the other, regardless of the fact that the uncontrolled flow of migrants often involves the infiltration of terrorists. but there is no way for the european parliament, for the european union, for the european worldview to identify these two phenomena. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will control it through the internet, we will control it through the cooperation of the member states, we will control it through the cooperation with third countries, because terrorism has a face, a very odious face, to which the european union's response can only be more democracy. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not crossed by the member states. the european union is working to prevent such phenomena. the choice to prevent people from coming to the european union is not one of ours. the european union can control its external borders, but the movement of citizens and goods through schengen and the circulation of ideas belong to the very principles that breathe our union.
the commission mr president, europe has suddenly discovered terrorism. the european parliament has been calling for a new european union, a new europe, a new europe of the people, a europe of the people, a europe of the people. you accuse us of being islamophobic. tell that to the parents of the kids who went to the bataclan to have fun and never came home. we will not give in to terrorism, you say, when capitals of european countries have the army in the streets to confront the threat. you have lost touch with the reality and everyday life of a european citizen. your policies of open borders, the collapse of values and unprecedented racism against the indigenous people could not but provide fertile ground for the seeds of islamic fundamentalism. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism, and we must be able to do so in a way that is not just a matter of the european union, but also of the european union itself. the organized attack in cologne on new year's eve against women is a terrorist attack. they sent the message: we are here and will ..... your wives, daughters and sisters! and you suggest women not to dress provocatively and not to wear perfume. most mosques that are operating in europe right now are nothing but terrorist hotbeds. what's the solution? let go of your ideological fetters, shield our continent from the millions who pour in illegally every year.
the commission the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the union. from the mujahideen, to osama bin laden and al-qaeda, to the islamic state, they've all been nursed by nato, the united states, the european union and the gulf monarchies for their own interests. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. you sow arab openings that turn into a winter for the peoples and you reap imperialist interventions that baptize anti-terrorist campaigns with complex mechanisms of repression and cover-up. the european union is deliberately trying to lump the radicalism of the peoples and refugees together with terrorism in order to strengthen its legal arsenal against the popular labour movement and to cast aside the rights and freedoms of the working people. it wants to blame the struggle to overthrow a capitalist barbarity which it defends. in the face of the barbaric anti-worker attack being promoted by the european union and governments, it is inevitable that the people will rise up. when they decide, they will show their strength.
no, the blue card request came at the end of the speech, i'm not accepting it. i think that the members of the european parliament can understand what the speaker is saying before he is finished. please make your request for a blue card in time or i won't accept it, especially since we're in the catch-the-eye process.
the commission the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of terrorism, and the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of terrorism. at the same time, the causes of this political and social phenomenon must be investigated in depth. in addition, the adventurism with which some european states, and france in particular, have been intervening militarily in the middle east since 2011 must be acknowledged. finally, the countries of europe themselves must recognize the enormous failure of muslim integration policies, restart the relevant programmes abandoned for ideological reasons after the 1980s and banish hate speech from the political confrontation through which the theory of cultural and cultural conflict is self-fulfilling. it is time for europe to follow another model in its international and intercultural relations with the states of the middle east and north africa.
mr president, because you have participated in the debate and because we are now using the catch-the-eye procedure, i do not think it is appropriate to give you the floor with a blue card. at the moment, speakers who were not on the list are being allowed to speak.
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the opening of negotiations on the trade relations agreement with australia and new zealand, tabled by mr bernd lange and mr daniel caspary, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000154/2015 - b8-0101/2016) - (2015/2932(rsp)).
the commission madam president, the european union's free trade agreement with australia and new zealand will lead to the elimination of customs duties, with the result that the union will be flooded with imported agricultural, livestock and dairy products at a time when greek, french and other european union farmers are literally fighting for their survival. the agreement will further strengthen the interests of multinationals at the expense of small and mediumsized enterprises in the union, at a time when small and mediumsized enterprises are being weakened by the economic crisis itself and by the partial austerity which has paralysed demand and consumption. the agreement also gives multinationals the right to seek compensation from the eu member states in which they operate in the event of an alleged violation of their rights. i therefore believe that as long as the european union has huge armies of unemployed, the opening up of markets and the deepening of globalisation will rather increase poverty and unemployment in the union than help growth.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission generally welcomes ms geringer de oedenberg’s report, which recognises the commission’s role in assisting the committee on petitions with cases raised by petitioners. in 2014, of the 790 admissible and followed—up petitions, 688 were forwarded to the commission. the commission shares the report’s opinion that there is a good working relationship between the committee on petitions and the commission. it welcomes the more careful screening that has been put in place by the committee on which institution or body is the best place to respond to a given petition. the commission does not, however, agree with the report’s observations that the commission imposed restrictions on procedural grounds to inhibit inquiries into the substance of petitions or suggested closing files without waiting for the outcome of the examination of the issues they raise. indeed, the commission would like to assure the honourable members that it responds to all the requests of the committee on petitions which fall within its competence and endeavours to assist the committee as best it can. no procedural restrictions have ever been imposed concerning the handling of petitions. however, there may well be cases where the commission cannot provide any detailed response to the committee as it has no competence in the matter. in such cases, the commission informs the committee of the matter accordingly. any decision to close a petition rests with the committee itself. the report calls on the commission to be represented in committee debates by an official with the highest possible rank. on this point, the commission would like to reassure the committee that it always sends its most competent officials for the issues concerned to the peti meetings, and has indeed not received any indications to date from peti members or from the peti secretariat that it was represented at an inappropriate level. regarding the report’s call for the transposition of eu law, the commission would like to recall that it actively remedies instances of incorrect transposition of eu law through the eu pilot and infringement procedures. as part of the better regulation agenda, the commission has reinforced its preventive action to support member states in the implementation process of union legislation. turning to the issue of making information on the developments in infringement proceedings directly linked to petitions available to the committee, i would like to clarify that such information is already available. the commission reports on its work in the annual report on monitoring the application of eu law, where it explains how it exercises its powers as guardian of the treaties, including a follow-up to petitions received from parliament. the commission also shares infringement-related information with parliament, in line with the current framework agreement, and discloses information on infringement procedures in the form of press releases, in particular at the stages of reasoned opinion and referral to the court. in addition, the decisions on infringement proceedings can be consulted on the commission’s searchable database available on europarl.eu. moreover, the commission is currently examining ways to improve the traceability of files on which petitions from parliament are sent to the commission. turning to the commission’s interpretation of article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights, it would like to recall that it is in line with the standing jurisprudence of the court of justice. regarding the report’s remarks on the european citizens’ initiative, the commission remains fully committed to assisting the european citizens’ initiative’s work, so that it reaches its full potential. the commission has already implemented – and will continue to implement – important measures to improve the functioning of the instrument under the current framework, in close cooperation with parliament, the member states and other eu bodies and stakeholders. the commission provided parliament with more detailed information in relation to these aspects in the plenary debate of 26 october 2015. the commission is considering further new actions to be implemented in several of the key areas highlighted in the parliament resolution on the european citizens’ initiative. however, as only three years have passed since the regulation’s effective entry into application, it is still too early to launch a legislative revision. the commission will, however, continue to work in 2016 to further assess the possible need for such a revision at a later stage. turning to the calls on the commission to implement the ombudsman’s recommendations and to take into account the peti committee opinion on the ttip negotiations, the commission is committed to maximising transparency wherever this can be done without undermining their core elements of confidentiality, considered essential for the negotiations. many of the ombudsman’s recommendations have already been implemented or are in the process of being implemented. the commission examined the citizens’ initiative on ttip in the context of article 11 of the treaty of european union, but it did not register it because the conditions laid down in regulation no 211 of 2011 were not met. the commission welcomes the report’s observations on the importance of the european year of citizens and it will continue to provide information and sustained participation in european democracy in the future, including by means of citizens’ dialogue in the member states. to this end, the commission consistently deploys the europe for citizens’ programme, in the application of which projects strengthening and facilitating the participation and involvement of european citizens in the european decision-making process are being funded. finally the commission thanks the committee for its support for solvit. the commission agrees that solvit should be further developed, and is currently working together with the member states to develop solvit to its full potential. in conclusion, i would like to reassure parliament of the commission’s continued and strong commitment to cooperating closely with it on petitions, which are a cornerstone of eu citizenship and a fundamental right under the treaty.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the committee on petitions is the institution to which citizens of the union can turn to defend their rights and to monitor the proper application of union law. the committee on petitions has now become a forum for dialogue between the various levels of authority of the union and its member states and the citizens themselves. one of the most important decisions of the appeals committee is that of october 2015, which accepted my proposal to consider the appeal of the national resistance fighters of the peaea-dse on the issue of germany's debts to greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, and i hope that the council will be able to accept them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain from voting on the resolution on the ratification of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo because, although we support the european perspective of this region (which explains why i did not vote against), we do not recognise its status as a country.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the question of kosovo's recognition has been a point of contention for a long time. the process of upgrading and improving conditions in the region is to the benefit of the citizens of these areas. although there are positive elements in the recommendation on the draft council decision, the conclusion of agreements with kosovo is causing debate at both legal and political levels, given the known problems that have existed and are likely to continue to exist in the region. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). i have therefore decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is a political entity. the accession of kosovo will be an acceptance of the change of borders of a state by force, just as happened with the turkish invasion and occupation of the northern part of cyprus and the unilateral secession of serbian territory arising from ethnic motives of the albanians. kosovo is not a state, nor is there a kosovar nation. we must not forget the crimes of tito's yugoslav communists, who transformed states and literally violated historical truth, creating macedonian dreams and kosovar aberrations.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is a political entity. the accession of kosovo will be an acceptance of the change of borders of a state by force, just as happened with the turkish invasion and occupation of the northern part of cyprus and the unilateral secession of serbian territory arising from ethnic motives of the albanians. kosovo is not a state, nor is there a kosovar nation. we must not forget the crimes of tito's yugoslav communists, who transformed states and literally violated historical truth, creating macedonian dreams and kosovar aberrations. for all these reasons, i am voting against the conclusion of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am totally opposed to the independence of kosovo because it would destabilise the balkans. i therefore choose to vote against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part, as it promotes the recognition of kosovo as an independent state.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity. the accession of kosovo would be an acceptance of the change of borders of a state by force, just as happened with the turkish invasion and occupation of the northern part of cyprus, and the unilateral secession of a serbian province to satisfy the ethnic aspirations of the albanians. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. we must not forget the crimes of tito's yugoslav communists who transformed states and literally violated historical truth, creating macedonian dreams and kosovar aberrations.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the decision to set up the committee of inquiry and its immediate start of work send a strong message that rules must be applied and enforced even by the most powerful. we do not negotiate the health of european citizens and we do not sacrifice our environmental ethics on the altar of profit and the perverse competition of multinationals.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the emission of particulate matter and nitrogen oxides from diesel vehicles affects and damages air quality with tragic consequences for public health and mortality of european citizens. we are in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the motor vehicle industry because in this way motor vehicle manufacturers will be checked for concealment, infringements and there will be no room for deception as happened in the case of volkswagen.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the emission of particulate matter and nitrogen oxides from diesel vehicles affects and damages air quality with tragic consequences for public health and mortality of european citizens. i am voting against the proposal for a committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the car industry because this would mean that car manufacturers would be checked for concealment, infringements and there would be no room for deception, as happened in the case of volkswagen.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i agree with and support the proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive industry.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the emission of particulate matter and nitrogen oxides from diesel vehicles affects and affects air quality, has a tragic impact on public health and increases the mortality rates of european citizens. we are in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the motor industry, because in this way motor manufacturers will be checked for concealment, infringement and fraud as was done in the past with volkswagen.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i have chosen to abstain on this resolution because i believe that the final version of the resolution is fundamentally flawed. i agree that we need to support the association agreements and the positive effects they may have for both the three countries and the european union, but i do not believe that we should limit ourselves to the trade side. i believe, on the contrary, that these countries must also take many steps in the fight against corruption, in the protection of freedom of expression and in the protection of human rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary reforms.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the racism and anti-russian sentiment of the european union is reflected in the lines of this text. in its attempt to build a political 'missile shield' around russia, the european union is funding and entering into agreements with the coup government in ukraine. the european union, with complete disregard for the consequences that such practices may have for the economies of its southern member states, is supporting and trying to include in its ranks some of the most corrupt and economically weak countries in europe.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against all the reports because racism and anti-russian anger in the eu is pervasive in the lines of this text. in its effort to build a political 'missile shield' around russia, the eu is funding and making deals with the coup government in ukraine. the union is not concerned with the consequences of such actions for the economies of its southern member states, but is instead supporting and trying to integrate some of the most corrupt and economically weak countries in europe.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution on the association agreements and deep and comprehensive free trade areas with georgia, moldova and ukraine for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 20 january 2016 and for the shortcomings of this text, which can be considered neither complete nor substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the eu's racism and anti-russian anger is reflected in the lines of this text. in its effort to build a political 'missile shield' around russia, the eu is funding and making deals with the coup government in ukraine. the union, regardless of the consequences for the economies of the southern member states, is strengthening and trying to integrate some of the most corrupt and economically weak countries in europe.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the effective fight against terrorism requires first of all that those affected admit that their own wrong policies have been the cause of terrorism in their country. when you start wars in third countries to strengthen your geopolitical position, when, under the pretext of freedom of speech, you insult the intelligence and religion of your fellow men and when you sacrifice human souls on the altar of power and economic interests, then you cannot plead for the help of others to protect you without changing your attitude and policy. the european union must not only combat terrorism, but also its causes. the application of this clause will involve other countries in the dance of terrorism rather than solve the problem.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, including the creation of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies, the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies, and the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies. when you foment wars in third countries to strengthen your geopolitical position, when, under the pretext of freedom of speech, you insult the intelligence and religion of other fellow human beings, and when you sacrifice human souls on the altar of power and economic interests, then you cannot appeal to others for help to protect you without changing your attitude and policy. the european union must not only combat terrorism, but also its causes. the application of this clause will involve other countries in the dance of terrorism rather than solve the problem. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ after the terrorist attacks in paris in november 2015, france asked for mutual aid and assistance from the other member states, legally based on article 42 of the teu. the eu ministers expressed their will to support this request. this mutual aid was used for the first time (since the lisbon treaty). i voted against this resolution, since i do not agree when the eu is used for military intervention. another reason is also because none of the european institutions were involved in the process. the decision was taken only from the council, without seeking the agreement of the commission or the parliament.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution on the mutual defence clause for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 20/1/2016 and also because i do not believe that the report in question is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. when you create wars in third countries to strengthen your geopolitical position, when you use the pretext of freedom of speech to insult the intellect and religion of other people, and when you sacrifice human souls on the altar of power and economic interests, you cannot ask others to protect you without changing your attitude and policy. the european union must not only combat terrorism, but also its causes. the application of this clause will involve other countries in the dance of terrorism rather than solve the problem.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the motion for a resolution on the eu's priorities for the 2016 human rights council meetings is an attempt to address in a comprehensive way the challenges that lie ahead, which we are called upon to address in a spirit of rationality and respect for our values. the proposal does indeed contain positive elements directly linked to human dignity, individual rights and religious freedoms of vulnerable social groups which have been so brutally affected in recent years by economic or other political crises of global scale. although the proposals contained in this proposal are generally welcomed, we cannot ignore the existence of controversial points which need clarification and detailed discussion. the proposals on terrorism leave open the possibility of measures that would be contrary to the fundamental rights of citizens, because the introduction of profiling procedures and the precautionary division of people into friends and enemies has been effectively announced. i therefore decided to abstain. the same was done by the syriza meps because we feel it necessary to systematically review our objectives for the next period.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ let the eu finally stop meddling in the internal affairs of third countries, because - when important member states are repeatedly engaged in unjust and illegal wars, - when they have illegally authorised their security forces to kidnap citizens and detain them without trial in detention centres on other continents, - when, en masse and without discrimination, most governments in the eu illegally monitor their citizens, - when the same governments are introducing refugees and migrants en masse into their territories, turning europe into a continent of rape and abuse of women, - when there is in greece unprecedented evidence of criminal networks, of political interference in the eu's institutions, of violations of democratic principles and of the principles of law, how can the eu invoke democracy and justice, but not its values?
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against all the reports on eu priorities ahead of the unhrc meetings in 2016. let the eu finally stop meddling in the internal affairs of third countries, because - when important member states are engaged in a series of unjust and illegal wars, - when they have illegally authorized their security forces to kidnap citizens and imprison them without trial in detention centres on other continents, - when most eu governments are mass and indiscriminate in illegally monitoring their citizens, - when the same governments are mass-sending refugees and migrants into their territories, turning europe into a hotbed of rape and abuse of women, - when there is in greece unprecedented evidence of criminal trials, of political interference in the rule of law, of democracy or of the principles and procedures of democracy, but how can the eu claim to be democratic and fair?
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the joint motion for a resolution on the eu's priorities for the 2016 sessions of the osce due to the many weaknesses of the motion.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ let the eu finally stop meddling in the internal affairs of third countries because - when important member states have been engaged in a series of unjust and illegal wars, - when they have illegally authorised their security forces to kidnap citizens and imprison them without trial in detention centres on other continents, - when, en masse and without discrimination, most governments in the eu illegally monitor their citizens, - when the same governments are introducing "refugees" and migrants en masse into their territories who have become europe or europe of rape and abuse of women, - when in greece there is unprecedented evidence of criminal circles, of political interference in the principles of democracy and justice, but how can the eu invoke democracy or the values of democracy and justice in its processes?
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it was one which i had co-signed with my colleagues when it was tabled.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the committee on petitions' work programme is not linked to the commission's legislative programme but is determined by citizens who, exercising their right to petition the european parliament, raise concerns about various eu policies and legislation. it is therefore a tool that enables citizens to raise concerns with parliament about the impact of various eu policies and legislation on their daily lives. the critical nature of this tool is demonstrated by the diversity of issues that affect citizens' reports, such as fundamental rights, human rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, the internal market, environmental law, industrial relations, migration policies, trade agreements, public health issues, child protection, transport and animal rights.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the 2014 committee on petitions work programme because it provides an opportunity for citizens to raise their concerns with parliament about the impact of various eu policies and legislation on their daily lives. the critical nature of this tool is demonstrated by the diversity of issues that affect citizens' reports, such as fundamental rights, human rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, the internal market, environmental law, labour relations, migration policies, trade agreements, public health issues, child protection, transport and animal rights.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the activities of the committee on petitions during 2014. i support its activities and annual work. the committee allows also an involvement of citizens in decisions on important political issues (such as the ttip and the isds). i voted in favour of this report in order to support the committee’s activities.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 21 january 2016 and because it is a full and well-founded report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the committee on petitions' work programme is not linked to the commission's legislative programme but is determined by citizens who, exercising their right to petition the european parliament, raise concerns about various eu policies and legislation. it is therefore a tool that enables citizens to raise concerns with parliament about the impact of various eu policies and legislation on their daily lives. the critical nature of this tool is shown by the diversity of issues that affect citizens' reports, such as fundamental rights, human rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, the internal market, environmental law, labour relations, migration policies, trade agreements, public health issues, child protection, transport and animal rights.
the rapporteur. mr president, today our parliament is exercising a leading function provided for by the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which is to exercise democratic control over the activities of the european central bank. the european central bank is not an independent european central bank. the european central bank is therefore accountable to the european parliament, the only eu institution directly elected by the people of the union. in previous years, the procedure for discussing the annual activity report of the european central bank in the european parliament's plenary session was limited to wish lists, with no criticism of the leadership of the european central bank and its actions. in this report we are putting our finger on the tip of the spear. although a special effort was made by certain political groups, within the committee on economic and monetary affairs, with joint compromise amendments, to remove important points of the report i had drawn up, although some tried to round off the corners, although the 'herakles of the crown' proved to be more 'strangely' than mr draghi, the key points of the report remain. the european central bank must take important steps to ensure that in the exercise of its mission there is no conflict of interest due to the fourfold action which has transformed the european central bank into a state within a state. and that's because the european central bank is supposed to be an independent monetary policy institution, while at the same time overseeing the 130 largest systemic banks in europe. at the same time, the european central bank is the big lender of the union countries, having bought bonds of the eurozone countries in the context of quantitative easing, and finally, it is a member of the troika which has bankrupted and impoverished the countries of the memorandum. the report therefore recalls the important and groundbreaking decision of the court of justice of the european union c-62/14, which sets out the terms and conditions under which the european central bank is obliged to implement the quantitative easing programme. a court decision that essentially calls for the european central bank to be expelled from the troika. at the same time, our report calls for transparency and control by the troika and, therefore, by the european central bank in the implementation of the so-called rescue programmes, i.e. the memoranda. mr draghi, unemployment remains extremely high, particularly among young people and the longterm unemployed, with rates varying widely, from 6.4% in germany to 26.6% in greece. and all this while the european central bank and the member states have spent several trillion euros on crisis response since 2009. at the same time, the ecb is particularly favourable to the continuation of the tough fiscal and austerity policies, which have not been able to reduce unemployment or public debt. the report even calls on member states to carry out an audit of the debt in accordance with the provisions of regulation (eu) no 472/2013. we also believe that a policy is needed to boost public and private investment and to stimulate growth. this requires increased liquidity and financing of smes. although the european central bank launched an ambitious quantitative easing programme that reached €582 billion at the end of 2015, of which €17 billion was spent by the central bank of impoverished greece, yet, mr draghi, neither deflation, unemployment, nor underdevelopment were adequately addressed. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the union's financial institutions are able to compete effectively with the world's financial institutions, and that the union's financial institutions are able to compete effectively with the world's financial institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report supports the european commission's proposed pan-european deposit guarantee scheme, but also points out the important steps taken towards the creation of a single supervisory authority for banks. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to obtain a loan of eur [...] million from the bank of greece. therefore, there is a need for greater transparency in the way the ela is operated. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their positive contribution to this report.
mr president, a single sentence in the report illustrates the essence of the european central bank's existence, but also the economic policy of germany and, by extension, the european union. paragraph 11: welcomes the firm commitment of the european central bank to do its utmost to protect the euro, which it made in august 2012; everything for money, not for citizens, not for nations, not even for countries. greece last year was negotiating with the institutions for its survival. the european central bank, true to its policy of independence, has stopped providing liquidity to my country in order to impose the vengeful behaviour of europeans on their evil little so-called brother. it is clear that the so-called stability of the euro is simply a means of enforcing germany's economic interests, and therefore part of the problem. to be part of the solution, the european union must change direction. and that can only be done with nationalist governments that empower the citizen, the family and the nation against money.
mr draghi and mr dombrovskis, monetary policy is not enough, we also need a change in economic policy, and mr dombrovskis, who is here, must answer for that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr dombrovskis, why is the pan-european deposit guarantee, which is the third pillar of the banking integration plan, being delayed? when will mr schäuble veto the motion ? mr draghi, do you intend to go ahead and strengthen the quantitative easing programme or will you shrink it because you have internal opposition from ultra-conservative circles represented by mr weidmann? and when will my country, greece, finally join the quantitative easing programme and stop borrowing at higher interest rates than other countries? there are signs of stabilization in the greek economy, and you must take initiatives to prevent it from being strangled. (sõnavõtja nõustus vastama nn sinise kaardi korra kohaselt (sõnavõtja nõustus vastama nn sinise kaardi korra kohaselt) (questions referred to in the order of the court of justice under article 162 (8) of the ec treaty) is the only part of the case in which the court of justice has jurisdiction to rule on the interpretation of the provisions of the treaty.
answer to a question with a blue card. the dismantling of the euro area and the return to national currencies is the programme of marie le pen, not the tsipras government, the exit of greece from the euro was mr schäuble's plan, which fortunately was cancelled in the summer. the greek economy is stabilising and we estimate that in the next period, and already from the second half of 2016, we will move to positive growth rates. what is needed, and what we on the left are fighting for, is not the dismantling of europe, but the changing of europe, social europe.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, first of all thank you for this debate. parliament has an important role in the debate on european economic policies, and it was positive to see such an engaged and informed debate. the commission fully supports the active role of the econ committee in the dialogue with the ecb, which is an important component of the ecb’s transparency and democratic accountability. the ecb has acted to address the risk of too prolonged a period of very low inflation, and it will continue to play a key role in the overall policy-setting of the euro area. it is now time for public authorities at all levels to take responsibility within their respective mandates. the impact of the crisis has not only been cyclical, it has also had a significant structural component and it has lowered the potential growth of eu economies. structural, fiscal and monetary policies each have a role to play in tackling this challenge. this year the commission will give a clear priority to initiatives which, if agreed quickly, can have a direct impact on jobs and growth. we will focus on new boosts for jobs, growth and investment. we will work to make the internal market deeper and fairer and strengthen its industrial base. finally, we will endeavour to make economic and monetary union deeper and fairer, building on the conclusions of the five presidents’ report.
president of the european central bank.– mr president, i am very thankful for this debate and i will try to respond to most remarks, though – i have to apologise in advance – not all of them, owing to time limits. by the way, some of the statements or questions were inherently political, and so the best equipped to answer are the national governments and the national parliaments, and perhaps your own parliament. let me just try to focus on the main points. i take from many of the questions that were asked that many of you have doubts about the effects of our monetary policy measures. let me try to explain why i have said several times that our policy measures are actually working. all the quantitative indicators show improvements in the provision of credit and financing conditions. to give you an idea, bank lending rates in the euro area have fallen by 80 basis points on average since mid-2014. we should also recall that the report you are addressing is 2014, but many things have happened since then. so let me give you an updated picture with respect to the report. the lending rates have fallen by 80 basis points since mid-2014 and by up to 140 points in the countries that were hit hardest by the crisis. second, these improved conditions have translated into higher credit and investment in the euro area, supporting economic growth and inflation and strengthening the resilience of the euro area in the face of adverse global developments. to give you an account of this, in may 2014, before the announcement of the credit-easing measures, the loans to the non-financial corporations, to firms and companies, contracted at an annual rate of 2.9%, but since july 2015 the contraction stopped and loans have started to grow. third, actions to ensure price stability bolster confidence in the euro economy as a whole and also support the ongoing recovery. we reckon that, if we had not taken our measures, the euro area would have been in outright deflation last year and prices would have fallen at an even quicker pace this year. to give an example, our staff has calculated that, in the absence of our credit measures and qe, growth would be one percentage point lower in the years 2015-2017. inflation would have been thoroughly negative in 2015, and certainly much lower than we are projecting now in 2016. when some of you – several of you – asked ‘what about the smes: how is all of this impacting the smes?’, well here i can repeat what i said in a press conference: that the pass-through of our measures into the real economy has been significant, if not spectacular, and the credit-easing package in june 2014 seems to have particularly benefited the smes, because the lending rates for small loans declined more than for large loans. regarding the recent surveys, there are two types of survey. one is the bank lending survey, where we ask banks what they plan to do and what are the major factors that they consider in deciding whether to give credit or not. the response is that, basically, there is no limiting factor today. then there is the commission’s survey – if i can quote it – and that says the last survey on smes’ access to finance reported an improvement in the availability of bank loans for smes and also in the willingness of banks to lend in the six months from april to september 2015. however, we have to acknowledge that lending rates for very small loans remain higher than for large loans, in particular in the vulnerable euro area countries, and that of course reflects the higher lending risk to smes to some extent. but certainly we want to overcome this situation. so there have been improvements. have the improvements been as much as we would like? not yet; we have to do more. we have to make sure that the smes’ credit conditions improve further. as far as monetary policy stands, i did say in my introductory statement that, in view of the increased downside risks to price stability, we stand ready – and the governing council stands ready – in accordance with our mandate to review, and possibly reconsider, our monetary policy stance in early march if warranted by incoming information. several of the questions and statements dealt with potential risks associated with low interest rates and our unconventional measures. these concerns relate, in particular, to a perception that low interest rates negatively impact on savers and that our policy may threaten financial stability, with respect especially to pension funds, insurance companies and savers in general. i have discussed these concerns on several occasions, but let me, however, stress the following. for savers, it is true that nominal rates on many types of savings in the euro area are currently very low by historical standards. i also explained that the low-interest-rate environment is actually a reflection of the current economic and structural conditions. so when i am asked how long this will last: it will last until the economic environment improves. so the low remuneration of savings is a symptom, rather than a cause, of the sluggish recovery after many years in which the economy has operated below its potential and unutilised resources have accumulated. imagine that we were to depart from the current accommodative monetary policy stance. what would happen? well, it is not difficult to imagine. we would further curtail economic dynamism and ultimately contribute to prolonging the period of low interest rates through further recession. but we should also note that deposits are not the only way in which savers invest their savings. so, if one takes a comprehensive view of the financial returns of a household, we see that other financial assets provide a buffer to counteract the low returns of bank deposits. let me quote a recent study by the bundesbank that showed that the real return on a typical german household portfolio since 2008 has been around 1.5%, which is certainly lower than the pre-crisis average – but it is certainly higher than many periods during the 1990s, for example. so i do not think we can talk about the expropriation of savings, as some have done – not today, but on other occasions. finally, the possible implications for savers have to be put in a broader context. savings are made out of incomes that must be earned. by supporting employment and encouraging investment in the context of continued sluggish demand conditions, our accommodative monetary policy therefore supports the capacity to save. concerns were also expressed on financial stability and how our monetary policy could have an impact on financial stability. of course, price stability – our objective – is the prerequisite and the basis for financial stability, and we have to stay focused on delivering price stability. at the same time, we are aware that monetary policy measures may have unintended side effects on the financial system, for instance, if low yields invite excessive risk-taking. but to address this we need macro- and micro-prudential measures as tools, not changes in our monetary policy stance. let me now just briefly mention comments made on the ecb’s involvement in the macro-economic adjustment programmes in general, which was another point that has been raised. when the troika was set up in early 2010, the european monetary union was not equipped to deal with member states losing market access. in the run-up to the first greek programme, member states saw an advisory role of the ecb alongside the commission and the imf, and it was considered to be a useful complement to assure a strong programme. in short, the troika was created to draw on the diverse experience of the institutions. there was not only a good reason to ask the ecb to provide its advice in the context of the programme work, but also a good case for the ecb to accept this request. successful programmes had to repair the transmission mechanism of monetary policy and to safeguard financial stability. let me stress that this set-up was codified in the esm treaty and by the co-legislators in the two-pack, and the court of justice confirmed its legality. in line with this, the ecb has since provided its advice in programmes in five member states. but we should not forget that the final responsibility for decisions on the programme design and financing lies with the eurogroup and with the eurogroup ministers in their capacity – and the esm – and not with the institutions involved in the programme. as i have said on other occasions, the ecb may not be part of the troika forever, but i believe the right timing for changing the current set-up needs to be carefully considered, and this is not for me to decide upon. a few remarks dealt with our transparency, and i can only say that this past year has been a year full of decisions that were meant to improve our transparency. certainly what we have done has strengthened our commitment. the publication of the account of our governing council meetings, and the calendars of my fellow executive board members and myself and the supervisory board chair, were two further major steps towards increased transparency. but our readiness to provide further information on topics of interest also underlines that the ecb is a transparent institution. to give you some examples: since september 2015, national central banks can publicly communicate about the provision of ela to the banks in their respective countries in cases where they deem such communication necessary. we also provided further information on our plans regarding the collection of granular credit and credit risk data, better known as anacredit. so i can assure you that the ecb monitors developments in the area of governance and access to documents with a view to further enhancing its transparency and therefore its accountability. let me now comment briefly on completing the european monetary union. as some of you have acknowledged, the five presidents’ report outlined a clear roadmap for moving ahead with euro area integration, and i certainly welcomed the commission’s proposals for short-term measures which should now be fully implemented. for the ecb, of course, the completion of the banking union is of the utmost importance. on the one hand, this means that commonly-agreed rules need to be implemented. the most prominent example of where further progress should be made is the transposition of the bank recovery and resolution directive (brrd) and the deposit guarantee scheme directive (dgsd) in all euro area member states. we are still missing a common backstop for the single resolution fund. we also need progress on the necessary, still-missing third pillar of the banking union, namely the common european deposit guarantee scheme. why is it important? because only such a system will ensure that depositors’ confidence is equally strong across countries and across the whole banking union, which is vital for the future of our economic and monetary union. implementing the short-term proposal of the five presidents’ report is important and may be necessary, but it is not a sufficient condition to completing the union. so i am looking forward to the proposals for developing the long-term issues. let me also recall, as i have done on other occasions, that for the euro area to prosper, the recovery cannot continue – and here i certainly agree with some of the statements today – to rely on monetary policy only. our monetary policy provides the room – as i said, it is an essential condition but is not in itself sufficient – for this recovery to become structural from what it is today, namely cyclical. there was one question about high-denomination banknotes. let me say that the executive board of the ecb has been considering this issue for some time now, and technical work is under way to look at high-denomination banknotes. we have not made a decision yet. there are questions on how to best implement a decision and how to communicate this. we want to make changes, but we want to make changes in an orderly fashion. but rest assured that we are determined not to make seigniorage a comfort for criminals.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the members for their participation in the debate. mr draghi, i agree that we must look to the future, but that means that the ecb must look to its past mistakes. the ecb underestimated the risks of deflation, and only in september 2014 did it wake up and resort to unconventional means, planning quantitative easing which it finally started to apply from january 2015. also, you were late in cutting interest rates as the fed did in a timely manner and you didn't respond, mr draghi, because unemployment is still at a high. at the same time, you have continued to insist on a tough fiscal policy and austerity. you have not answered, mr draghi, what steps you should take to stop the conflict of interest within the ecb. finally, when will you leave the troika, mr draghi, as the court of justice of the european union has indicated to you in its judgment c-62/2014, and indirectly, a short while ago, you yourself accepted it? how can we explain, mr draghi, that greece, which is a debtor, is lending its creditors €17 billion through quantitative easing, through the bank of greece? where did mr. sturnaras get 17 billion euros and did the bank of greece participate in quantitative easing in 2015? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but you tried and you imposed credit strangulation on greece in 2015 and you imposed capital controls. your blackmail policy and lenders' support in order to undermine the "no" of the greek people in the july 2015 referendum is recorded as a black mark by the ecb. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr draghi, if there is to be a real solution to the contradictions in the eurozone, the eurozone must cease to be a union of creditors. the problem of the public debt must be solved, and that must be done by cancelling the defaulted debt and making it reciprocal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. as i said, they were "royalists of the king", which means they were more "dragonists" than you, mr draghi.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, yesterday, friday, president schultz began to try to postpone the vote on tisa under various technical pretexts, as he did a short while ago with tisa's twin sister, ttip. and why does the president want to postpone it? because he doesn't know if his group will vote for the deal or against it. why doesn't he know? the european union does not need this agreement and many members do not want it. there is already a gats, if it needs changes, let's modernize it! the only people who promote such agreements are the multinational corporations and their political representatives. we know the play: deregulation, deregulation, deregulation. the reform of rules and services, the weakening of the power of the states to regulate affairs, the limitation of small and mediumsized enterprises, the questioning of rules and the quality of work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we ask for the power of governments to change policies and agreements if that is what the citizens want and vote for. clear exclusion of public services from the agreement under discussion. otherwise, services like health and education will soon be privatized. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the agreement on trade in services, while theoretically aimed at helping european companies providing these services worldwide, is in fact another blow to the idea of the nation state. the government control over financial services is limited and the state monopoly in these sectors is effectively abolished. the state has no power to intervene to protect the interests of its citizens and when it does, it does so in a very small proportion and cannot set the rules by which the provision of these services is regulated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in addition, the state is obliged to keep records of these companies and bear their expenses. on the other hand, if certain elements proposed by the united states are adopted, then the state will not be able to give pensions to its citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, there is the possibility of having personal data leaked to countries characterized by their high levels of corruption. so... the president is taking the floor from the speaker. )
in writing. it is no coincidence that the eu's largest emerging partners, namely the brics, categorically refuse to participate in any international agreement on trade in services. the only aim of this agreement is to preserve in every way the hegemonic position of the large european service companies in the international division of labour. the abolition of customs and non-tariff duties serves the interests of multinationals in particular, while it harms those of small and mediumsized enterprises and public enterprises, particularly in smaller countries. eu citizens have expressed their strong opposition to the international agreements tisa and ttip and are demanding that member states' public and small enterprises be protected from becoming victims of international competition.
mr president, the debate on the status of the chinese economy is directly linked to whether anti-dumping duties can continue to be imposed on chinese products to protect european steel and other industries. however, before discussing whether or not there is a market economy in china, we should discuss the gradual 'chinanisation' of the european economy, as european companies have been trying to imitate their chinese counterparts in management and labour rights for some time now. the substantial convergence of interests is demonstrated by the completion of the privatisation of the piraeus port authority, promoted by the taiped, by the sale of the last pier, which remained under public control, without any protests from the troika and the creditors. this alleged investment by the chinese is worth €368 million to the greek government, after last year's purchase of a similar turkish terminal of the same capacity by the same chinese company cost €800 million.
madam president, we consider it important that the european union negotiates a partnership with the west african countries, but of course there must be certain conditions. i believe that sustainable development must come first and that cooperation between the countries of the region must be strengthened, because only then will there be growth and, with growth, we will not have large waves of economic migrants, who are now coming to europe. at the same time, regional cooperation will also help to consolidate peace and thus reduce conflicts, so that we can have a second positive effect, namely to limit the refugee flows which also originate in this region and come to europe. on the other hand, however, we must take seriously the issue of human rights violations, because child labour, as it has developed, is something that is now happening all the time and i think we must be absolutely opposed to it.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not possible for the rural population of most of the countries of the european union to enjoy minimal or even zero taxes on agricultural oil and energy, while at the same time in greece the troika and the memoranda impose an intolerable increase in taxes on agricultural oil, making agricultural production less and less competitive. so, while greek farmers are fighting to save their insurance and the oga, they are getting another stab in the back, mr vella, because, following a decision by the commission and the european parliament's committee on international trade, the free and duty-free import of 70 000 tonnes of oil from tunisia into greece is being launched for the next two years, and even retroactively from 1 january 2016. we therefore stand by our farmers who are being exploited by the memorandum and we will fight to stop the impoverishment of the greek farmers.
madam president, the proud peasants of my country, greece, are on their feet, they are on the blockades and they are fighting for their own survival. the troika and the lenders, with their memorandum policy, which is being implemented by the syriza/anel coalition government, are dismantling the primary sector, imposing a tax-free surcharge on the farmers' pockets, taxing the land they cultivate, confiscating community subsidies, seizing the farmers' bank accounts and dismantling their insurance system. but farmers and ranchers are resisting and escalating their just struggle. the whole of greek society is on their side, the selfemployed, the pensioners, the workers. it is about the formation of a new social anti-memorandum alliance which is determined to block the way to the troika. a new social alliance that will express itself massively, democratically and militantly in the general strike of february 4th next thursday. because all greeks fight together to throw the troika out of our country and take back greece.
madam president, the social security bill is part of the third memorandum signed by the syriza/anel government with the european union and the international monetary fund and voted by all the other bourgeois parties. it's a check from the big money. it implements strategic guidelines of the european union which provide for the abolition of the social character of insurance, treating it as an individual matter, burdening workers with unbearable contributions, reducing pensions, raising the retirement age to old age. the conversion of pensions into an old-age pension, together with the incorporation of the european solvency ii directive, opens the way for the increase in the size of the private insurance groups. the small and mediumsized farmers are being burdened with exhaustive increases in contributions which, together with the terms of the new cap, are eliminating them, while giving preference to large farmers and groups. the government here and now to withdraw the bill neck. on thursday, february 4th, in the strike, the workers, with the small and medium farmers and their blocs, and the self-employed, can give a massive decisive answer
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. madam president, precarious work has become much worse during the economic crisis. irresponsible employers extort people who need work, and fear of unemployment drives workers to work under conditions of illegality. the platform to combat undeclared work will try to bring order to the jungle of unregulated work. firstly, it is important to extend the role of the platform. the european commission's original proposal defines undeclared work as any legal work that is not declared to the official state authorities. but undeclared work now takes many forms of employment, for example, it is declared as five hours work but is actually eight hours, overtime is done but never paid, there is false self-employment, cutbacks in contributions and even the extreme phenomenon of unpaid work. the platform is now obliged to consider all of these. member states, the european commission, employers and workers together with employment agencies need to sit around a table to understand the situation of undeclared work across europe. in today's introverted and resurgent nationalism, it is crucial that we listen to and learn from each other. in addition, we must try to develop joint actions to combat crossborder undeclared work. is that enough ? we wanted strict compulsory action to be imposed by the european union. i also regret that a representative of the european institute for gender equality was not included as an observer of the work of the platform. we believe that women should be heard whenever they have to contribute their experience and suggestions. we're not compromising, we're just getting started. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr pirinski, for being a model negotiator. i would also like to congratulate the luxembourg presidency and say that when people believe in the same cause and work with determination they may not achieve everything they wanted, but they certainly make the way of the offenders more difficult. good luck to all of you, and we're not stopping here.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. when undeclared work in the union as a whole is as high as 20%, while in greece it is over 36% and in profitable sectors such as tourism 44%, particularly affecting women and young people, and when the union's main aim, as it states, is to reduce the so-called non-wage costs by exempting employers and the state from the cost of insurance, its concern about reducing undeclared work is literally pure ridicule. as the platform does not recommend aspirin measures either. it sees it only as unfair competition between firms, as a vehicle for squeezing wages, as an incentive for the partial conversion of undeclared work into flexible work, part-time and rotating employment, blockades, exploitation of apprenticeship, social cooperative entrepreneurship, slave-trading offices. of course, the black market will continue to exist because it is in the interest of your system. for example, in greece, the increase in insurance and tax contributions to 75% of total income for self-employed people and farmers, under the new syriza-anel project, will increase undeclared work, will remove them from insurance, pension and care. the new general reduction in wages and employer contributions, the increase in unemployment are a grave blow to the social security system and the funds. in response to this "armageddon" of the european union and the syriza-anel government, workers, self-employed, poor farmers are united in their general strike across greece on february 4th.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. it is a shame for the europe of 2016 that the phenomenon of undeclared work has reached such a scale. every worker should have a secure social security, insurance, a fair wage and a pension that will ensure a comfortable life afterwards. but the union only talks about taking care of the workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you should come to greece and say that. in greece where your policies have created a huge humanitarian crisis and you claim that this is the way to the future. we give you that future. we are fighting for our own future in a different european union. we say no to a union that protects big international capital, a union of tyrants, which, with the tax raids it orders and executes on its domestic subjects, seeks to destroy every trace of national economy in order to distribute the rubble to its multinationals. moreover, all of you who care about workers' rights have been steadfastly seeking for a long time to replace the european working class with hordes of illegal immigrants, knowing, of course, how much easier it will be to exploit this new workforce and achieve a downward equalisation, again in the interests of the multinationals. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council on the subject of the european parliament's role in the european union. but know this: the people are waking up and they will send you and your policies to the dustbin of history, wherever you belong. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. my dear colleague, perhaps you misunderstood, or perhaps you misinterpreted. i didn't say that thing. i said we must protect all workers, because everyone has equal rights, whether they work in small businesses or in large companies. but unfortunately, these policies protect the multinationals and not the rights of the workers.
the commission madam president, undeclared work is intertwined with the whole process of deregulation of industrial relations. it is linked to the huge unemployment that exists and the pressure from employers to have black labour. at the same time, undeclared work means a huge loss of contributions to the social security funds. and we see this, particularly in greece where we have a huge tax evasion. a tax evasion that undermines the entire functioning of the insurance system. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the implementation of the budget. i therefore believe that it is important that the problem be recognised at european union level, that this platform and the exchange of good practice should be established, but this is a purely national responsibility. and that is where we must aim to get a real hit on undeclared work and an increase in social security contributions.
the commission mr president, in order to attract investors and to achieve sustainable economic growth, there must be a fair and equitable distribution of the tax burden to commercial enterprises. today, in the era of globalization, technological advances are directly affecting the economic environment and enabling multinational corporations to bypass the restrictions of the tax system of different countries, to make smaller profits and to speculate at the expense of the people of all countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fair distribution of the tax burden can only be achieved within the framework of the national state, which, in implementing its fiscal policy, can take measures to protect the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises, which form the backbone of not only the national but also the european system, so that thousands of people do not lose their jobs, as has unfortunately happened in recent years in my country, greece. the national state will thus be able to adopt a social and economic policy and then work with the other states to prevent the illegal and irrational speculation of multinational companies.
the commission mr president, the european commission has placed particular emphasis on the automatic exchange of information between member states in the framework of the corporate taxation package. the aim of this decision is to tackle tax evasion affecting many member states of the union and tax rulings. the main actors in tax evasion and avoidance are, of course, multinational companies, which erode the national tax base. moreover, the practice of intra-group transactions used by multinationals negatively affects the budgets of countries and hurts their economies, while multinationals save billions of euros in taxes. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used to the detriment of the community's citizens. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that multinational companies are taxed in the country where they make their profits and to stop resorting to tax havens such as the netherlands or luxembourg, where we have had the luxleaks scandal, and you are here, mr president of the commission.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the commission's communication on combating planned tax avoidance by large multinational companies contains pertinent findings on the scale of the problem and grandiose announcements on how to tackle it in the future. in practice, however, nothing has been done to ensure that the tax is paid where the value is produced or where the consumption is made. the communication refers to a package of legislative proposals including a proposal for a directive on combating tax evasion with a time horizon of autumn 2016. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states, and i am sure that the council will take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states. if the commission is serious about what it says, it must prove it by taking action now and not in the future.
i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take action on the basis of the rules of procedure, but i would ask that the commission should be able to take action on the basis of the rules of procedure. you could have sent him flowers, but not right now.
the next item on the agenda is voting time. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes. )
the time for voting is over.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a simple codification of existing texts without any substantive amendment.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code) is a particularly important issue in our time, as we are witnessing an unprecedented crisis that is testing europe's resilience. i think it is a good thing that any effort is being made to modernise and correct the regulations for the benefit of the citizens. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report is proposed to be voted on as it only attempts to codify the legislation in question and not to amend it. given the cumulative influx of illegal immigrants, it is necessary to amend the legislation on the cross-border movement of persons.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against the report because it only attempts to codify the existing legislation and not to amend it. given the cumulative influx of illegal immigrants, it is necessary to amend the legislation on the cross-border movement of persons.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code) because it indirectly exercises the competence of the member states in the field of rules governing the movement of persons across borders. these responsibilities belong to the member states and the schengen borders code in this respect violates the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ given the cumulative influx of illegal immigrants, it is not necessary to codify the existing legislation, but to amend the legislative texts concerning the cross-border movement of persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the adoption of the union code on the regime for the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code), as the competent advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission decided that this proposal is simply a codification of existing texts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the specific amendments to the 1998 heavy metals protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as they provide, inter alia, for stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements that will benefit parties that accede to it before the end of 2019. this amendment is fully in line with current eu legislation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendment to the protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is part of a wider effort to improve existing regulations and agreements. as it directly concerns all european citizens affected by air pollution, i believe that it should be welcomed by all of us and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation as the amendments to the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution are a necessary step towards protecting the environment, an issue that concerns us all, regardless of political orientation.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendment to the protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the 1998 protocol, as well as its subsequent amendments and additions, in particular those relating to persistent organic pollutants, are a necessary step towards environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation by mr la via on the acceptance of the 1998 amendment to the protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. this amendment will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment, while being fully in line with the existing eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this amended protocol as it includes seven new substances, updated implementation requirements for various substances, updated restrictions on emissions of pcdd/pcdf from various sources, and adds pcbs to the list of substances affected by the overall annual emission limitations and reporting obligations. the amendments are fully in line with existing european legislation
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendments to the protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is part of the overall discussion we are having on the reduction of environmental pollutants. i therefore believe it is particularly important to support such initiatives in order to improve the living conditions of citizens and to protect the environment itself. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation as the amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution are a necessary step towards protecting the environment, an issue that concerns us all, regardless of political orientation.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the procedural improvement of the scope of the international convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, already endorsed by parties at international level and now to be transposed in the eu legislation framework through several legal instruments. the acceptance of these procedural arms is necessary, given the damage to human health and to the environment caused by transboundary air pollution. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendments to the protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, because it is comprehensive and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the 1998 protocol, as well as its subsequent amendments and additions, in particular those relating to persistent organic pollutants, are a necessary step towards environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the recommendation by mr la via to accept the amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. as in the case of transboundary air pollution, this amendment is moving in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, as i believe it is important to support eurojust's work in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. this agreement establishes cooperation between ukraine and eurojust as part of judicial cooperation between european countries.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine has particular implications for the lives and freedoms of millions of citizens. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the union. i therefore think that we should continue this debate and that is why i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the operational cooperation in judicial matters between eurojust and the corresponding ukrainian authorities cannot be implemented due to the continued interference of the illegitimate ukrainian government in the judiciary. the ombudsman, to whom the functions of the competent supervisory authority have been transferred, is not a guarantor of the legality of the measures, the cessation of interference and, in particular, the protection of personal information.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the operational cooperation in judicial matters between eurojust and the corresponding ukrainian authorities cannot be implemented due to the continued interference of the illegitimate ukrainian government in the judiciary. the ombudsman, to whom the functions of the competent supervisory authority have been transferred, is not a guarantor of the legality of the measures, the cessation of interference and, in particular, the protection of personal information. for these reasons i am voting against the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine, because it is not complete and well documented. in addition, it upgrades the role of ukraine and opens the way for possible future eu accession of ukraine, a prospect with which i strongly disagree, since, moreover, a possible eu accession of ukraine would be detrimental to the greek agricultural economy.
in writing. ‒ operational cooperation on judicial matters between eurojust and the corresponding ukrainian authorities cannot be implemented due to the ongoing interference of the illegal ukrainian government in the judiciary. the ombudsman, to whom the functions of the competent supervisory authority have been transferred, is not a guarantor of the legality of the measures, the cessation of interference and, in particular, the protection of personal information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, as i believe it is important to support eurojust's work in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. this agreement establishes cooperation between montenegro and eurojust as part of judicial cooperation between european countries.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the draft council implementing decision on the approval of the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro has particular implications for the lives and freedoms of millions of citizens. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the union. i therefore think that we should continue this debate and that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with the respective montenegrin judicial authorities in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the opinion of the respective joint supervisory body (jsb) on the draft agreement took into account the provisions of the council of europe convention on the automatic processing of personal information, on supervisory authorities and on the transborder flow of data. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the eurojust-montenegro cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the proposed approval of a cooperation agreement between the ukraine and montenegro with eurojust. eurojust is an eu body to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime. it is important to underline the role of eurojust in building mutual trust and bridging the eu’s wide variety of legal systems. the report stresses the clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with montenegro, in order to reinforce the fight against transnational crime and to enhance judicial co-operation in europe. however, i decided to abstain. i believe that this position makes it possible to express my doubts on the necessity to conclude agreements in the judicial sphere with countries like montenegro, given the continual infringement of defence rights and prison conditions at national level.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i withdraw from the report on the draft council implementing decision on the approval of the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro, as it is not complete.
in writing. ‒ there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with the respective montenegrin judicial authorities in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the opinion of the respective joint supervisory body (jsb) on the draft agreement took into account the provisions of the council of europe convention on the automatic processing of personal information, on supervisory authorities and on the transborder flow of data.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to approve the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro, which aims to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on the request for waiver of immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. as the request concerns acts which are in no way connected with the political activities and freedoms of the member, i believe that we cannot and must not stand in the way of justice, and therefore i voted in favour of the waiver of the member's immunity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the mep's immunity is requested to be lifted as he was recorded by a speed camera travelling at 79km/h in an area with a speed limit of 50km/h. it is proposed that we vote to waive his immunity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the waiver of immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, as parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and privileged treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of immunity of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on the request for waiver of immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. as the request concerns acts which are in no way connected with the political activities and freedoms of the member, i believe that we cannot and must not stand in the way of justice and therefore i voted in favour of the waiver of the member's immunity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the waiver of immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, as parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and privileged treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of immunity of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have voted today on the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of florian philippot. this request arose from the member's political activities and, in particular, from his position on specific political and economic issues of a third state. although we are divided by an ideological chasm and i do not share any of the views of this member and the area from which he comes, i have decided to vote against the waiver of immunity, as to do otherwise would be the greatest blow to the right to freedom of expression, not only for meps but for society as a whole. i therefore consider that the member's immunity should not be waived.
in writing. the mep is accused of defamation by the state of qatar for claiming on a radio show that qatar finances terrorism. the commission is proposing to vote in favour of the ep's proposal not to waive his immunity on the basis of this category.
in writing. ‒ the mep is accused of defamation by the state of qatar, as he claimed on a radio show that qatar finances terrorism. i am voting against the ep's proposal not to waive his immunity on this charge.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of florian philippot, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's report aims to create a european platform to strengthen cooperation in the prevention of undeclared work. undeclared work accounts for 18% of eu gdp and varies from 8% to 30% depending on the country. undocumented work is a phenomenon found in many sectors of employment and is associated with negative consequences for workers (lower wages, unfair competition, social dumping, lower tax revenues and social security contributions, violations of their labour rights). i believe that the creation of this platform will be a useful first step towards better cooperation between the member states and the social partners in the union in order to combat the phenomenon of undeclared work and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have discussed today the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the creation of a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and combating undeclared work. undeclared work is clearly one of the biggest thorns in europe's economy and any initiative to combat it i consider to be in the interests of the citizens, as the official and legal registration of workers secures a set of rights that protect and support them. it should be stressed that the creation of the platform is a rather innovative move which will allow us to listen more closely to the existing problems and needs of the european economy. i therefore voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the we are opposed to the use of "platforms" to combat undeclared work and the exploitation of the working class in general, especially when these are created by the actions of big business, which exploit the masses of the people from the start. the report also includes provisions for illegal immigrants and various benefits for the so-called experts who will be part of the platform.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the creation of a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and combating undeclared work. the unreported work and the exploitation of the working class in general are not dealt with by "platforms", especially when they are created by the actions of big capital, which exploit the popular masses from the start. the report also includes provisions for illegal immigrants and various benefits for the so-called experts who will be part of the platform.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the efforts of the eu in order to tackle one of the most complex problems, that of undeclared work. the consequences of undeclared work are highly negative: deprivation of workers of social protection, several health and safety risks, weakening of labour standards. it is important also to underline that the problem of undeclared economy has grown during the economic crisis. the report welcomes the establishment of a european platform in order to prevent and deter undeclared work more effectively. however, the rapporteur stresses the need to further improve the functioning of the platform by making wider its scope, by reinforcing its legal instruments and enhancing a better cooperation with all member states. this is why i voted in favour of this report
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european platform to enhance cooperation in preventing and combating undeclared work, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 2 february 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ undeclared work and the exploitation of the working class in general are not dealt with by "platforms", especially when they are created by the actions of big capital, which exploit the popular masses from the start. the report also includes provisions for illegal immigrants and various benefits for the so-called experts who are expected to staff the platform.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i supported the legislative decision to create a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and combating undeclared work. unfortunately, undeclared work is a reality for millions of citizens in europe. the long-term objective of this new platform is to improve working conditions and to integrate undeclared workers into the labour market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children and young people.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted against this report on the eu biodiversity strategy because it is a strategy to check the adequacy of legislation on nature (birds and habitats). the compromise amendments cover several key issues, including the importance of providing an urgent political priority for achieving the 2020 targets, as well as more information to the general public to increase awareness, adopting a multi-stakeholder approach to ensure the active involvement of all stakeholders, including regional and local actors. we also agreed that farmers must play an important role in the conservation of biodiversity and we believe that the instruments of the common agricultural policy should encourage farmers to tackle this issue. the agreements also cover fisheries and the marine environment, invasive alien species, pollinators, illegal wildlife trafficking and deforestation, and the importance of research and innovation in this field. finally, the socialist and democratic group supports the fruitful negotiations at commission level, which have managed to incorporate important points of our political group's proposals so that we have a holistic approach to biodiversity in agriculture and the environment, as well as to the conservation of genetic diversity.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy is part of our environment debate and activities. it is an open secret that we need to take immediate action and initiatives to protect the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are overwhelmed, environmental protection is our primary objective, our positions and ideology do not allow us to do anything but support all efforts to protect nature.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy, as environmental protection is a priority for me. my position and ideology do not allow me to do anything but to be a helper in any effort to protect nature.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the biodiversity strategy of the eu. biodiversity is therefore essential for people’s health and well—being, as well as for their economic prosperity. it is important to underline that nowadays biodiversity is under severe pressure due to human activity. deplorably, the european aim to halt biodiversity loss failed in 2010 and the eu undertook a new strategy in 2011. it is clear that without additional reforms, the eu will in 2020 again fail to achieve its targets. for this reason, the report calls on a better implementation and enforcement of the existing legislation. additionally, it considers that innovative nature-based solutions can significantly contribute to tackle those challenges. consequently, i voted in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am withdrawing from the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy because it is not complete.
in writing. ‒ the protection of the environment is our primary objective, and our positions and ideology allow us to do nothing but support all efforts to protect nature.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy, which gives a realistic picture of the situation at european level, while making substantive recommendations to the european commission and the council. whether we like it or not, we must recognize that european commitments to protect biodiversity have repeatedly failed. without significant efforts and political will, the eu will miss its 2020 target once again. the numbers, unfortunately, speak for themselves. the implementation of the legislation in force, and in particular the monitoring of its implementation, are essential conditions for achieving substantial progress.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the commission madam president, i would like to speak on a personal note, because there have been some things said here that are not true. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not exposed to the dangers of racism and xenophobia, and that the european union is not forced to take action against those who are not. either she was misinformed about what happened in athens, or she lied. because in athens there was an anniversary of honor and memory for three greek heroes, officers, who lost their lives in 1996 in imia, and this event was of course banned by the syriza government.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, mr koenders and mr avramopoulos, the response to the refugee crisis requires stronger and more effective european cooperation, not an à la carte europe which wants agricultural subsidies or structural funds for infrastructure for poland, hungary, slovakia, but does not want the implementation of the joint european decisions on the refugee response. and of course such a europe, which respects its signature to the geneva convention of the united nations, can have nothing to do with the return to the nationalism, xenophobia, racism and the disintegration of europe sought by the extreme right. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external borders are not subject to any form of control. two days ago i read this sentence: any eu country in greece's position would have the same problems. the eu is also working to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the eu's information and to make use of it. four months ago, in this room, someone said: 'europe is the baker in kos who gives bread to the refugees, and the european citizen who welcomes the refugees at the munich railway station' was jean-claude juncker. it is europe, not the chairman of the afd, mr kamall, who is calling for refugees to be shot at the border, and not fascist right-wing extremists chasing blacks at copenhagen station. and because people have discovered that schengen is the problem and are calling for schengen to be abolished or for a smaller schengen. less schengen means no schengen, and a collapse of schengen would be a huge loss for both democracy and refugees and for the economy. the reintroduction of border controls would be a disaster for europe and because many people are talking about implementation - it's the implementation, stupid - the council and commission decided in september to relocate 160 000 refugees, proportionately. what's the app? four hundred, you told us today. can europe go on like this? of course, greece has already made considerable progress - as we speak - in relation to the authorities' report in november and we are confident that by march, when you assess, we will have completed the commitments that the country has undertaken. but you must also keep your commitments, mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council and commission, if we are to have a more effective and democratic europe which solves the refugee problem, which is not a greek or an italian problem, it is a european problem. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission mr president, the debate on schengen and greece is a lever for the european union to implement more decisively repressive measures by the syriza-anel government, by eliminating the necessary monopolies on refugees. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in this matter. the walls are being built with schengen in place, fuelling smuggling rings, while the last savings of refugees are being seized, crushing the fascist hordes. schengen does not abolish controls, but extends them electronically with biometrics and a dossier. it is the application of articles 19 and 26 of the schengen agreement that imposes border controls with the visible risk of thousands of desperate refugees being encased en masse in greece. the immediate need is to transport refugees directly to their final destination countries and for the peoples to intensify their struggle for a world free of exploitation, imperialist wars and refugees.
the commission the european union has been able to respond to the serious problem of refugees and migrants in the most accurate way possible, and it is still doing so. at first he was indifferent, and then, when the issue got out of hand, he started the oriental bargaining with turkey on how much money he should give her to forbid the country's corruption circles, in which state officials are also involved, from promoting illegal immigrants to greece. turkey, as expected, took advantage of this opportunity and began to blackmail the european union and ask for more money than the three billion it has been approved to receive. you must realize that turkey is not a reliable interlocutor, does not fulfill its obligations and takes advantage of every opportunity to promote its national interests. if we want to put economic pressure on turkey, we should, for every illegal immigrant coming from turkey to greece, impose a heavy fine which should be deducted from the money turkey should receive. we'll let her know that we know how to do eastern bargains.
the commission i do not want to ask a question with a blue card, but i would like to point out something that may have escaped your attention. earlier, colleague guzman spoke in parliament wearing a t-shirt that said "anti-fascist action" and it has been on twitter and all social media. i think that is forbidden by parliament, because i could have worn a golden dawn shirt and been here. but you can see i'm not. it should be marked and noted.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, my question is not about mr maragall, it is about the previous speaker, mrs forenza, who said that we should give the three billion to the ngos. does he know that ngos are involved in illegal activities? the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the member states and to provide information on the situation in the community. these are the people he wants us to give the money to? is that the kind of action he wants us to reward?
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. mrs valenciano, you said earlier that the aegean and the mediterranean have become a vast graveyard. so i ask you: who pushes these people to get into rotting boats and cross the waters of the aegean? i answer for you: turkey. that's where the problem starts, and you have to admit it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i would like to ask you, apart from the need for the hot spots you mentioned, and we agree, do you agree or not that we should also decide to set up hot spots outside the member states as stated in the council of europe resolution?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is not only a political entity, but it is also a political entity, and it is not only a political entity, but it is also a political entity. so, what do you mean? are we under attack from an army ? desperate and hungry, women and children, we have before us. what do you suggest? what about minefields, trenches, snipers? and i don't want to hear about deportations, suspension of schengen and all that bullshit again. and finally, stop hiding behind greece. you blame her for an alibi because you refuse to take even the slightest responsibility for a problem that your own policy has created and i have not heard any self-criticism in this room today. so what do you want? what are you working on ? what have you decided ? rebuild the concentration camps ? greece to become the lebanon of europe? europe becoming the hotbed of nazism and fascism again? the solution is one, ladies and gentlemen, and i have said it many times in this chamber, and it must be implemented immediately. safe routes for refugees and their accommodation in all member states of the european union.
the commission madam president, in an environment of threat to the schengen area we must be honest with ourselves and our citizens. closing the borders is a political choice, not a necessity. the choice of specific states that do not want refugees on their territory, that ignore european values and international rules and play games of delegation. greece is fighting to control - if possible - a vast sea area in the aegean, where frontex experts consider effective control impossible, it respects international law, cooperates with european agencies and, above all, saves human lives. the european union is well aware that the largest human trafficking networks with huge turnover are operating off the coast of turkey, committing the most heinous modern organised crime, but it does not exert the necessary pressure to create 'hot spots' outside european territory, in accordance with the council of europe resolution. we insist on this so that no more lives are lost and we ask that turkey be forced to respect the agreements it has signed and to honour its commitments. it is not worth threatening greece, which because of its geographical location has borne the brunt of the largest refugee crisis since the second world war. let's all take responsibility. the schengen area will be our responsibility if it collapses, and it will not be because of the migration crisis. the big loser will be europe itself and its values.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are threatening greece with expulsion from schengen, even though they know that this is not foreseen. do you think, colleagues, that the question of intercepting the thousands of refugees who are being brought into the aegean by turkish slave-trading rings will be solved by the new frontex? doing what? sinking boats full of refugees? so you haven't asked yourself why thousands of refugees risk drowning in the aegean to come to greece and don't choose to go from turkey to bulgaria? why has greece become a magnet for refugees? but because it's the only schengen country that borders turkey, and as a schengen country, it issues travel documents that refugees take to get to germany. if greece leaves schengen, then 90% of the refugees will not come to greece. that is why i have proposed since 11 december that greece should close its borders and withdraw from the schengen agreement. the negative consequences for my country will be minimal and the benefits enormous. so let's not be too big on the tongue. the schengen agreement has been suspended in germany, france, sweden, austria and denmark. implement the relocation of refugees. stop feeding ankara, create hot spots in turkey.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the longer we wait, the faster the refugee will get out of control. we have two months of bad weather ahead of us in the aegean, which means that the flows will be fifty to sixty thousand people a month. but from april, and with the help of good weather, the flows can reach one hundred and fifty thousand people a month, destabilising the european union. only if ankara's policy changes and becomes more restrictive will the refugee flows be drastically reduced. but to see whether the turkish government is cooperative, we must first meet the basic economic needs of the refugees in turkey. we are also calling for a rapid reduction in the flow of refugees. if we give financial support to refugees in turkey and they do not respond, then we will pursue a strict policy towards them. but we must first send the money to evaluate ankara's reaction and make final decisions. many of my colleagues believe that by delaying or cancelling the money we will punish the turkish regime, which i do not particularly welcome. but i believe that by delaying the sending of the money we are punishing two and a half to three million refugees and ourselves.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, we have heard criticism of greece for delaying the opening of registration centres for refugees and migrants in the aegean islands. everyone should understand that a country facing an unprecedented economic crisis is facing objective difficulties in receiving and controlling a wave of refugees and migrants that has more than tenfold increased in 2015 compared to 2014. instead of blaming greece for ignoring the efforts it is making with its meager resources, deal with the erdogan regime, which is systematically violating what it has agreed with the european union and funneling people to greek territory at will, extorting even more money from europe at the same time, turkey benefits from the slave trade, as the profits of the traffickers feed into its economy and are also embezzled by regime officials. the european union must show real solidarity with greece and speak the language of sanctions to mr erdogan.
the commission madam president, the european commission's new strategy on women's rights aims at gender equality in the member states of the european union, where women's rights are often violated and discriminated against. in particular, in the labour market there is a gender pay gap of 16.4% and a corresponding pension gap of 39%. in addition, women often work part-time. women are the population group most affected by both austerity and the memoranda. in greece, which has been impoverished by the memoranda, the new anti-insurance bill is leading women self-employed and farmers, but especially women farmers, to spend more than 80% of their annual income on insurance contributions and taxes. that is why all these women are fighting, along with the rest of the greek people, against the troika and will join the mass general strike the day after tomorrow.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. unfortunately, in 2016, we are still talking about gender inequality and the need to protect women's rights. women of all ages experience violations of their rights in a variety of ways, including violence - verbal or physical - sexist comments, inequality in the workplace, or difficulty in accessing education. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. the new eu strategy on women's rights and gender equality is moving in this direction. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european centre for the development of vocational training. two are the seeds of character development and shaping as well as of perceptions, especially in young people. family and school. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, we are discussing the increase in endocrine disorders and diseases observed in recent years in a large part of the population. endocrine disruptors are chemicals that mimic hormones and interfere with the hormonal system, causing fertility disorders, tumours and various cancers. these substances are, as has been said, present in many products of everyday use and the individual consumer is unable to be aware of their existence, since these items often do not carry a declaration of content. it is therefore necessary for the european union to review existing relevant legislation and to have more requirements on chemicals contained in products such as food and beverages. in addition, changes should be made to the assessment, authorisation and restrictions of those substances in those products, and there should be greater transparency in determining whether a substance in this context has the properties to be prohibited.
the commission madam president, we are discussing transparency and control in the clinical trials process in the light of the recent tragic incident in france, where we had one dead and five people who are still in hospital and in danger. clinical trials are aimed at developing medicines and improving the therapies used, and within the european union, investment in clinical research exceeds eur 20 billion a year. however, there is often a lack of transparency and control in clinical trials. in addition, cases of concealment of any negative results in preliminary clinical trials and publication of only the desired results are also frequently observed. therefore, in order to ensure transparency in clinical trials, all pharmaceutical companies should declare and make public the results from the early stages of clinical trials, as also required by the world health organisation.
the commission mr president, on the refugee issue, a central issue in yesterday's european council debate, the union's position on the repression of refugees was confirmed. let the people think. what do you call those who have armed the islamic state, who are waging wars with millions of victims and refugees, to control the oil fields? closing borders with more dead, missing refugee children, strengthening smuggling rings. they open them only to hardworking refugee workers, squeezing wages for profit, drowning and imprisoning the rest. who are turning greece into a refugee concentration camp, feeding the propaganda of vile racists and nazis. separating refugee families, stealing their belongings at the border. who want to control, bargain or change countries' borders with the euroborder guard for business interests. all of these are what you call the european union, bourgeois governments. the communist party of greece calls them capitalists, cruel exploiters, murderers of refugees and peoples. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the world of work.
the commission mr president, the complexity of the refugee issue is obvious and it is very high on the european council's agenda. there are responsibilities at international level. we're late for the party. the refugee problem cannot be solved unless the problem in syria is solved. and the problem in syria cannot be solved unless isis is defeated on the ground. there are responsibilities on the part of the european union too: imperfect mechanisms to deal with such a big problem. that is why we need more europe, not less. the european union must protect the borders of greece and italy, which are in the eye of the storm. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it also requires solidarity for such a huge problem. turkey also has responsibilities there is no fight against the smuggling of migrants. there are no visas for countries like the maghreb, and hundreds of thousands of refugees from north africa and the arab countries are trying to cross illegally through the aegean sea to the european union. hotspots are needed on the coasts of asia minor, with identification of refugees on ships on both sides of the aegean, and the return of illegal migrants. the refugee problem is a challenge that we must tackle successfully. we trust the commission and mr juncker and we believe that europe will find a solution to this great problem.
gue/ngl), in writing. the letter from the president of the european council to the heads of state or government of the union on the british question raises a number of questions. the european council is expected to adopt a legally binding decision to meet the demands of the british government, but it is not clear what will happen if the result of the referendum is nonetheless in favour of brexit. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i fear that this may translate in practice into further deregulation of the labour market and a worse breakdown of labour and other social rights. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the european union can only respond to the enormous challenges it faces with greater solidarity, both between its member states and within each of them, with redistribution from the haves to the have-nots. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it applies the necessary safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism which may need to be activated if a product originating in moldova is imported into europe in such large quantities that they create a problem for union production.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have today discussed the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. i believe that the moves to strengthen the existing rules, with a view to ensuring both sides, are positive and have a similar impact on the citizens of the eu and of moldova, particularly in the economic sector. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation concerns the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism which provides for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and moldova, of the other part. the proposal should be supported as the mechanism is designed to protect the economic interests of the agricultural producers in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this proposal because the mechanism is designed to protect the economic interests of the agricultural producers in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the european union is moldova’s biggest trade partner. it is then essential, to have a european trade agreement with this country. i voted in favour of this resolution, in order to safeguard our mutual clauses and harmonise this process. for example, to consult the moldovan authorities before each definitive imposition of the safeguard clause.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part, because it is not complete.
in writing. ‒ the application of this mechanism ensures the protection of the economic interests of the producers of agricultural products in the member states.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by mr scholz, which was approved by a large majority of the members of the committee on international trade.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have today discussed the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. the implementation of corresponding decisions aimed at strengthening regulations and cooperation between the eu and third countries is a positive move which can ensure smooth cooperation between citizens of both sides. i therefore decided to support it and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this proposal because the mechanism is designed to protect the economic interests of the agricultural producers in the member states.
ecr), in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, because it is not complete.
in writing. ‒ the application of this mechanism ensures the protection of the economic interests of the producers of agricultural products in the member states.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of ratifying the marrakesh treaty because the committee on petitions is making use of rule 216 (2), which allows it to table a short motion for a resolution. there will be a simple vote, no amendments or debate. the short resolution calls on the council to speed up the process of ratifying the marrakesh treaty signed by the eu in june 2014. the treaty focuses on exceptions to the right to allow for the wider distribution of books in formats accessible to the visually impaired, thus preventing discrimination, since all citizens should have access to the same books. all but seven member states have ratified the treaty and this short resolution hopes to put pressure on the remaining countries to disengage. there are more than 26 million visually impaired people across europe and only 5% of all published books are accessible (less than 1% in developing countries).
in writing. ‒ the right of persons with disabilities to benefit from measures to ensure their autonomy, social and occupational integration and participation in society is unquestionable.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the right of persons with disabilities to benefit from measures ensuring their autonomy, social and occupational integration and participation in society is unquestionable, which is why i am voting in favour of ratifying the marrakesh treaty, on the basis of the reports received, in particular reference 924/2011.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, on the basis of the reports submitted, and in particular report 924/2011, because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the right of persons with disabilities to benefit from measures to ensure their autonomy, social and occupational integration and participation in society is unquestionable.
in writing. our primary concern is the well-being of our fellow citizens, especially those who need us most. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on petitions.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted against the objection under article 106 which refers to genetically modified food and feed and asks the commission to come up with a new one. in the meantime, any new provision on gm food/feed should therefore be adopted in accordance with the current legal framework, which the commission recognises as not functioning satisfactorily. the authorised soybean is resistant to certain herbicides, therefore its cultivation could encourage a more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment or to human health. in accordance with article 11 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 on implementing acts, the european parliament may, at any time, propose to the european commission a draft implementing act which goes beyond its implementing powers. the commission should then review the draft implementing act taking into account its position and may maintain, amend or withdraw it.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have voted today on the objections raised to the authorization of the placing on the market of genetically modified soya. as is easily understood, this is a matter which concerns the whole of europe's population, as it directly affects the public health sector and any authorization must be given after thorough discussion and research in order to ensure the health of citizens. the decisions we will take are of particular importance, as the genetically modified food sector has the potential to cause major disruption to the european economy as well. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report in so far as it proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot be the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution deals with the draft commission decision that authorises the placement on the market of products containing or produced from genetically modified fg72 soybean. according to the international agency for research on cancer, soybean contains a protein that confers tolerance to glyphosate, which is probably carcinogenic to humans. given that fact, this motion underlines the non-conformity of this draft decision with the general european principles for ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and calls on the commission to withdraw it. this is the reason why i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution based on the objection under rule 106 concerning the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council, because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection by voting in favour. this initiative enhances food and feed safety for the benefit of producers and citizens, and supports the proper functioning of the internal market within the union.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the in this motion for a resolution, parliament wishes to raise its objections under rule 106 to the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon87708 × mon89788. in october parliament rejected the commission's new proposal on genetically modified food and feed and asked it to come back with a new proposal. in the meantime, therefore, no new genetically modified food and feed should be authorised to be placed on the market under the existing legal framework. this authorised soybean is resistant to certain herbicides and therefore its cultivation may encourage a more liberal use of herbicides, which may have harmful effects on human health. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the objection, as we believe that the commission should come forward with a new proposal on genetically modified food and feed, which will assess the environmental impact of gmos more precisely.
in writing. ‒ the we have voted today on the objections raised to the authorization of the placing on the market of genetically modified soya. as is easily understood, this is a matter which concerns the whole of europe's population, as it directly affects the public health sector and any authorization must be given after thorough discussion and research in order to ensure the health of citizens. the decisions we will take are of particular importance, as the genetically modified food sector has the potential to cause major disruption to the european economy as well. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean products of the mon 87708 × mon 89788 series (mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i reject the report in question as it proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean products of the mon 87708 × mon 89788 series (mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot be the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution based on the objection under rule 106 concerning the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council, because it is complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soya is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by mr la via, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the resolution sets out the conditions for strengthening food safety, protecting the environment and the consumer.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the in this motion for a resolution, parliament wishes to raise its objections under rule 106 to the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon87705 × mon89788. in october parliament rejected the commission's new proposal on genetically modified food and feed and asked it to come back with a new proposal. in the meantime, no new genetically modified food and feed should be authorised to be placed on the market under the existing legal framework. the specific soybean species authorised for marketing is resistant to certain herbicides and therefore its cultivation may encourage a more liberal use of herbicides, which may have harmful effects on human health. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the objection, as we believe that the commission should come forward with a new proposal on genetically modified food and feed, which will assess the environmental impact of gmos more precisely.
in writing. ‒ the we have voted today on the objections raised to the authorization of the placing on the market of genetically modified soya. as is easily understood, this is a matter which concerns the whole of europe's population, as it directly affects the public health sector and any authorization must be given after thorough discussion and research in order to ensure the health of citizens. the decisions we will take are of particular importance, as the genetically modified food sector has the potential to cause major disruption to the european economy as well. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean products of the mon 87705 × mon 89788 series (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i reject the report in question as it proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot be the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution based on the objection under rule 106 concerning the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council, because it is complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soya is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed text. our main priority is to ensure public health and the quality of the goods placed on the european market.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the today's debate on the emission limitations for light passenger and commercial vehicles is part of the wider context of our efforts to ensure better living conditions for european society and citizens. it is therefore obvious that we must not only seek to comply with the regulations but also to implement new ones which will lead to better conditions. the reasoned objections raised are aimed at improving the existing situation and must therefore be welcomed. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ taking into account the catastrophic effects of air pollution per year, calls on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and to submit a new draft without delay by 1 april 2016 at the latest, in order to introduce real driving emissions testing for all vehicles to ensure the effectiveness of control systems;
in writing. ‒ given the devastating effects of air pollution on the environment, i am voting in favour of the report and agree that the draft regulation should be withdrawn and that the commission should submit a new draft without delay by 1 april 2016 at the latest, in order to introduce real driving emissions testing for all vehicles to ensure the effectiveness of the control systems.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution based on the objection under rule 106 concerning the draft commission regulation (eu) amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the devastating effects of air pollution on the environment, calls on the commission to withdraw this draft regulation and to submit a new one without delay, in order to introduce real driving emissions testing for all vehicles to ensure the effectiveness of control systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which strengthens the eu institutional framework and which is designed to ensure the smooth functioning of industry in line with our decisions and the environment 2020 strategy.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the recommendations of the european parliament to the commission on the negotiation of the agreement on trade in services, because i believe that the rules governing world trade need to be modernised and updated, but not at any price. the transparency of negotiations, the right to privacy within the data flow, the prevention of social dumping are just some of the issues protected by this report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we have discussed today the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the agreement on trade in services, as this is an important issue to which we should turn our attention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ it is proposed to vote against the report on the tisa agreement, as it puts at risk eu service standards, employment (including quality jobs), public services for eu citizens and the right of member states to regulate. ·
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa), as this agreement puts at risk eu service standards, employment (including quality jobs), public services for eu citizens and the right of member states to regulate.
in writing. ‒ i voted against reding’s report. if gats needs to be modernised, let’s evaluate it and reform it with all parties. but tisa instead is a new plurilateral agreement negotiated by a club of rich countries, which remains in favour of multinational companies, at the expense of quality jobs, the environment and data protection. it needs to be noted that as a shadow rapporteur on behalf of gue/ngl, i am glad to see that some of our red lines were adopted by the majority of the ep, such as the exclusion of ratchet and standstill clauses, or the ratification of ilo conventions.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa), for the reasons set out in detail in my written intervention on the above matter, submitted pursuant to rule 162 (12) of parliament's rules of procedure.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the tisa is closely linked to ttip and other international agreements such as ceta and ttp. the kke voted against the text of the european parliament's recommendations and did not enter into the debate on amendments allegedly to improve another transnational agreement - an aberration for the people. tisa, like other similar agreements, swept away any labor rights, any measures to protect public health, safety, the environment, subordinated to the pursuit of maximum profit. it serves the need of the large monopoly groups on both sides of the atlantic to control fully liberalised markets and penetrate new ones, by removing any barriers and handing over essential public services such as education, health, water etc. into the hands of the business groups. neither tisa nor any of the other market liberalisation agreements can be corrected by terms and amendments. those who try to convince people that they can become pro-people are deceiving the people. in fact, they support the competitiveness of the european union in its confrontation with rival monopolies, because above all they defend capitalist barbarity. the kke rejects tisa and the twin sisters agreements, and calls on the people to intensify their struggle to overthrow them, along with the monopolies and their power.
in writing. ‒ this agreement jeopardises eu service standards, employment (including quality jobs), public services for eu citizens and the right of member states to regulate
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the tisa is closely linked to ttip and other international agreements such as ceta and ttp. the kke voted against the text of the european parliament's recommendations and did not enter into the debate on amendments allegedly to improve another transnational agreement - an aberration for the people. tisa, like other similar agreements, swept away any labor rights, any measures to protect public health, safety, the environment, subordinated to the pursuit of maximum profit. it serves the need of the large monopoly groups on both sides of the atlantic to control fully liberalised markets and penetrate new ones, by removing any barriers and handing over essential public services such as education, health, water etc. into the hands of the business groups. neither tisa nor any of the other market liberalisation agreements can be corrected by terms and amendments. those who try to convince people that they can become pro-people are deceiving the people. in fact, they support the competitiveness of the european union in its confrontation with rival monopolies, because above all they defend capitalist barbarity. the kke rejects tisa and the twin sisters agreements, and calls on the people to intensify their struggle to overthrow them, along with the monopolies and their power.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this oral question to the european commission concerns the creation of a new strategy on gender equality and women's rights for the period after 2015. gender equality is a fundamental value of the eu, recognised by the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. the current strategy on friendship equality ended in 2015 for this and parliament in its resolution of 9 june 2015 underlined the need for the commission to present a new dedicated strategy. on 3 december 2015, the commission presented the 'cooperation strategy on gender equality 2016-2019'. however, this is only a working document and therefore has not been approved by the commission nor has it interinstitutional validity. the council has also asked the commission to set specific benchmarks and to allocate a budget for this purpose. gender equality is one of the objectives of the treaty, and women's rights and gender equality are two of the fundamental values of the european union, which is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the we voted today on the new strategy on gender equality and women's rights for the period after 2015. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. the efforts being made to eliminate inequalities and discrimination in all sectors of european society are of particular importance and it is our duty to welcome them positively and to use them to improve conditions for citizens. i therefore voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are against, the approach of the report is not compatible with the idea of us as a family, but instead promotes an image of individualism, the exaggeration of which has led western societies to the current decline.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against all the reports on the new strategy on gender equality and women's rights for the period after 2015. the report's approach is not compatible with the idea of the family, but instead promotes an image of individualism, the exaggeration of which has led western societies to their present decline.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this resolution is that the european commission adopts a transparent and public communication for a new strategy in gender equality for 2015 and after. i voted in favour of this resolution, to oblige the european commission to fulfil its duties.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the new strategy for women's rights and gender equality in europe after 2015 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 2 february 2016 and because the motion for a resolution in question is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the approach adopted in the report promotes an image of individualism which is incompatible with the ideal of the family and which is largely responsible for the current decline of western societies.
in writing. ‒ i support any effort to strengthen the role of women in all areas of our society. i have certainly supported this report which sets out the main points of the new strategy and gender equality in employment, health, public and private life.
the commission madam president, serbia has made significant progress in its efforts to become a full member of the european union. this effort is of particular value because you are asking serbia to take tough and serious decisions, such as, for example, to align its foreign policy with that of the european union including russia, not to weaken the autonomy of vojvodina, to deal with those who have been designated as war criminals and to address the different perception of history in the region. moreover, its accession process has coincided with progress in relations with kosovo and the recognition of kosovo, which, as we know, is the historic cradle of the serbian nation. but while the european union asks serbia to be consistent with all these commitments, it does not do the same with kosovo. it tolerates a violation of a basic principle of the republic, the separation of powers and the country's parliament being subverted and not accepting decisions of the constitutional court. two measures and two balances, so the question is: do we want serbia in the european union or are we just playing it to satisfy the political ambitions of some states, especially germany, which is responsible for everything that is happening in the european union today?
the commission madam president, the european union, and in particular germany and austria, with their foreign policy in the 1990s, bear a significant responsibility for the dismemberment of yugoslavia. after a decade of war and nato bombing targeting serbia, the country has been found to have lost significant territories inhabited by serb populations. it has lost its access to the sea, but also the cradle of serbian civilization, namely kosovo, and important infrastructure has been destroyed. the european union has come to a society which has been in a state of economic insecurity ever since and has asked it, in the most hypocritical way, to adapt itself completely to western european standards of state organisation. the european union is also calling for the de facto recognition of kosovo by belgrade, which is further fuelling albanian nationalism. we stress the positive role of serbia in the refugee crisis and declare that the place of orthodox serbia is in europe and the greek people support serbia's european path.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people, and it is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. the enlargement that is being promoted under the pretext of european integration and cohesion serves the interests of economic and geopolitical power centres. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. a region deliberately settled by thousands of albanians and which envisions its union with albania, according to statements by albanian prime minister rama and kosovo foreign minister thaci, a former kla leader and known war criminal. a state that produces islamic extremism, corruption, crime, hosts and trains jihadists and fosters hatred towards other peoples in the western balkans. a region forcibly separated from serbia and on whose territory an international military peacekeeping force is still operating. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so let's stop this comedy and do the right thing. immediate reunification of the kosovo-metohija region with serbia.
the commission madam president, kosovo is another sad spectacle of military intervention in which we and the european union have played a part. we note that the pseudo-state of kosovo has unilaterally declared its independence, which is contrary to un security council resolution 1244, which provides for autonomy for kosovo within serbian territory. we also note that in a relevant report of the council of europe, the current foreign minister and former prime minister of the pseudo-state, hashim thaçi, is accused of setting up a network of illegal trafficking in human organs. we note the systematic persecution and threats faced by the christians of kosovo, the majority of whom are serbs. we note that kosovo is on the list of the ten countries with the highest percentage of people directly involved in daesh islamic terrorism. we also note that the nationalist movement calling for union with albania receives 14% of the vote. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
the commission madam president, as a greek mep i express my solidarity with the people of haiti, the first people to recognise the independence of the newly created greek state after the revolution of 1821. after the 2010 earthquake, ngos and the west imposed a pariah government. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is a phenomenon of modern hollywood humanism, but it has failed completely, having deepened the food crisis, devastated the farmers and failed to organise democratic elections. that is why he is facing the very people of haiti, who have risen up. the run-up to the elections was marked by controversy and violence, and there is also, as has been heard, controversy over the outcome of the october 2015 elections. there is already a deadlock as the second round of the presidential elections is continuously postponed and what is certain is that the people of haiti will send a message with many recipients about the democratic transition, the completion of the electoral process and the fight against poverty.
mr president, i have listened carefully to the debate that has taken place here and i agree with the analysis that my colleagues have made. the situation in this country is absolutely deplorable, and europe is threatened with another influx of refugees from this country in the future. but i want to mention in my speech one thing that has not happened here and that is also a threat to europeans, and that is the abductions of europeans who somehow appear on libyan territory. i wanted to come out and inform the commission and the representatives of the european council that a czech, i represent the czech republic here, was kidnapped in this way last march 2015. it was about paul the horror, who worked in the oil field and was kidnapped by terrorists and has been detained for over a year. it is good to know this information and to take it into account when negotiating with certain groups, as the risk of abduction is present and will increase in the future if the situation in libya does not improve.
the commission mr president, the current economic and political disintegration of libya is hurting the already oppressed people of the country. firstly, we are still seeing attacks against important oil infrastructure, which is of paramount importance to the well-being of the libyan population, since 80% of its gdp depends on the oil sector. recently, daesh terrorists, who have consolidated their influence in the country since the overthrow of gaddafi in 2011, continued for a second day the bombing of the port and oil terminal of es cinder, causing a large fire in an oil tank. the result of this state of war in libya is that thousands of people are being forced to leave the country, thus intensifying the migratory flows. it is therefore clear that all the member states of the european union should oppose the violations of international law that are observed daily in the country, as well as any action that violates human rights. at the same time, turkey's support for daesh terrorists operating in libya must be supported.
madam president, i have listened to this debate very carefully and i think that the european union, the council, must exert maximum pressure on president maduro to be willing to respect the results of the elections, because it is nice to talk about dialogue, about reconciliation, but for that both sides must be present, and that is not objectively on the president's side at the moment, that is my first comment. and the second thing. i am convinced that parliament will have to make fundamental reforms, because it is becoming clear that this is not just about amnesty, about other things, but it is also about the overall reform of the rule of law in this country. the rule of law in venezuela is not objective, and this is also shown by what has been mentioned here, how the supreme court works, which has illegally stripped three mps of their mandate. that is, if a country is to prosper, it cannot do so without law and an independent judiciary. and all these signals we should send as representatives of the european parliament and also as representatives of the council of venezuela, and especially to president maduro.
the commission madam president, the political outcome of the parliamentary elections last december reflects the public's dissatisfaction with the previous government's handling of the economic crisis triggered by the sharp drop in oil prices. it's natural that the new government's cohabitation with president maduro is causing friction. venezuela's newly elected parliament, dominated by the opposition wing, has vowed to overturn the social and economic policies of the maduro government. the dismissal of four mps for electoral irregularities has been much discussed in europe, but it is not the main issue in venezuela today. moreover, one in four mps belongs to mr maduro's party. on the contrary, the bill that the new parliament is expected to vote on to privatize social housing infrastructure is provoking strong social reactions in a country where 50% of the population lives in makeshift housing. concrete measures are needed to strengthen the european union's economic relations with venezuela, aimed at the mutual benefit of both parties and respecting the principle of non-interference in each other's internal affairs.
the commission madam president, we are discussing the arbitration procedure for investor-state dispute settlement, known as isds, and also the transparency issues arising from its operation. first, what isds has achieved so far is to allow multinational companies to bring actions against specific states for losses suffered by those companies as a result of a public policy decision. the existing system of judicial protection is being abolished and companies are able to obtain compensation from the states through isds. in parallel, in order to ensure transparency on isds, the european union should integrate the transparency standards of the united nations commission on international trade law into all trade and investment agreements, including the ttip talks with the united states. the actions proposed by the un committee on transparency include the publication of the european union's negotiating texts and the holding of public hearings.
the commission madam president, sexual harassment and violence against women is a chronic social problem which is becoming more acute in the midst of the economic crisis. we have recently seen the mass sexual harassment of some ninety women in cologne, which according to the police authorities appears to be the work of africans and arabs. the next day, demonstrations were organized against violence against women, but also against merkel's immigration policy. it is clear that refugees and migrants must be integrated smoothly into european society for as long as they are temporarily in europe. however, violence against women is a problem that does not recognize nationality, class or social strata. in particular, in countries affected by the economic crisis and austerity policies, cases of violence against women and gender inequality are increasing.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mrs crețu article 174 is still a blank canvas in the implementation of policies to strengthen cohesion in island regions and the commission must do more for the islands of europe and particularly the islands of the aegean. lesvos, one of the greek islands in the aegean sea, has a population of 85000. in 2015, it received 500,000 refugees. residents of lesvos, along with volunteer and well-known actress susan sarandon, have been nominated for the nobel peace prize, because they showed humanity and solidarity to these war refugees, covering europe's shortcomings. but you, as the commission, must do more, because these islands are places of great tourist interest, with a great lack of infrastructure for the inhabitants, with enormous transport costs and are europe's front line in dealing with the refugee problem. so not just words, but deeds.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's been effectively repealed. it has been abolished, firstly, because the greek islands are also suffering the consequences of the memorandum policies, the austerity policies. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the taxation of the greek islands is not subject to the same rules as those applied in other european islands, such as reduced vat, in order to deal with the specific problems that we know the greek islands have. the airports have been sold off to private and foreign interests, so it is doubtful that the cost of transport, which you know is crucial for transport on the islands, can be reduced. finally, they are suffering the consequences of the multilateral refugee crisis, particularly the aegean islands, and the absence of a european solidarity policy. i would therefore appreciate, on this occasion, commissioner, if you would give me an answer to a question i have put to you for four months on what specific measures you are taking in the context of cohesion policy, in the context of insularity, for the greek islands which are currently suffering and are receiving the greatest refugee burden both in terms of people management and refugee registration and in dealing with this problem.
the commission mr president, article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises that island regions as a whole face permanent handicaps which require special attention. these disadvantages are related to their demographic situation, but also to their physical location. this has resulted in problems of competitiveness and social cohesion. in greece, the islands proved particularly vulnerable to the economic crisis. but instead of supporting them, the troika abolished the special tax regime of the aegean islands and increased vat from 13% to 23%. the commission notes that the capital injections were granted in the form of a capital injection of eur [...] million. in addition, the aegean islands are now affected by huge refugee flows, as over 600000 refugees were first hosted in the aegean islands in 2015. however, the arrival of this huge number of refugees and the lack of infrastructure are creating social problems and have damaged the tourist image of the islands. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: ms crețu, there is indeed a need for greater involvement of local and regional authorities in the use of the structural funds. more decentralisation, less centralisation, less red tape and a greater share of the structural funds and the related funds for local and regional authorities. but above all, it needs more help and technical assistance from the commission, in dialogue with the national authorities, the local and regional authorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. and of course more needs to be done in terms of money and technical assistance for those cities, islands and regions which, in addition to their permanent problems, are facing the intensification of the refugee crisis. in greece we have many such cases, not only on the islands but also in the capital city of athens. i therefore look forward to the commission's consultation and proposals, because the local and regional authorities must be given more practical weight, both in terms of technical assistance and money, in the implementation of local programmes.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. the population has shrunk dramatically as a result of the current bad situation. i am therefore in full agreement that we must strengthen the region and especially its people. the farmers, the cattle farmers, all those who choose to work in the countryside. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, the present government in greece has set itself the task of exterminating, among other social groups, the peasants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, we must ensure that all the resources, european taxpayers' money, that are allocated must be allocated with absolute transparency and control away from any suspicion of corruption if we are to have tangible results. i would like to send a message to greece, where there is a nationwide, all-greek strike today against a left-wing government that is continuing the memoranda and impoverishing the lives of the greeks.
the european union is being led and behaving and has come to express the opinion of only certain countries and power centres, and especially germany. if anything, we are hypocrites when we discuss restrictions on religious activities in crimea, when hagia sophia, although a temple of the orthodox christian faith, is forbidden to be used as a place of worship for christians by turkey, which is seeking to join the union. you are talking about human rights violations by the occupying forces in crimea. when was crimea invaded and by whom? the rapporteur did not tell us. at the same time, you are turning a blind eye to the misery of the turkish occupation forces in cyprus. i would call it a political perversion to want turkey to supply you with jihadists, with islamic extremists, with illegal immigrants and with drugs from the middle east, because otherwise it is inexplicable. turkey, which with its neo-ottomanism and doctrine of strategic depth is interested in the 12% minority of tatars, whom for twenty years it has fed and supplied and is leading you to conflict with russia. avoid a clash with russia. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
the commission madam president, in the past month five well-known hong kong publishers have disappeared. they were known for their criticism of the beijing government for its backroom politics and various scandals. so it is a given that the hong kong public is now convinced that the leadership in beijing is responsible for the disappearance of these five well-known publishers. that is why we have several protests by hong kong residents against the chinese government, demanding the release of the missing, but also the right to freedom of expression. the european union must therefore oppose the human rights violations taking place in hong kong and defend the freedom of speech and expression of publishers, journalists and citizens. finally, all the member states of the union should demand that the disappearance of the five publishers be thoroughly investigated.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed to vote against the progress report of serbia as: (a) require serbia to change its attitude towards russia; (b) require serbia to make efforts to normalise the situation on an equal footing with kosovo; (c) make progress in the accession negotiations dependent on the normalisation of relations with kosovo; and (d) require serbia to absorb a large wave of illegal migrants, exacerbating the already tense situation in the balkans.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the progress report on serbia because: (a) requires serbia to change its attitude towards russia; (b) requires serbia to make efforts to normalise the situation on an equal footing with kosovo; (c) makes progress in the accession negotiations conditional on the normalisation of relations with kosovo; and (d) requires serbia to absorb a large wave of illegal migrants, exacerbating the already tense situation in the balkans.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 report on serbia concluded that serbia has made some political and economic progress (public administration, economic governance). the gue/ngl group welcomes the progress and the positive developments in the country. however, since we cannot accept the recognition of kosovo and the neoliberal economic reforms, i voted abstention.
in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the motion for a resolution on the 2015 report on serbia for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 3/2/2016 and because the motion for a resolution is incomplete.
in writing. ‒ this progress report forces serbia to absorb a large wave of illegal immigrants, thus exacerbating the already fraught situation in the balkans.
in writing. ‒ serbia is an integral part of the european cultural heritage. serbia is on a development path which is increasingly converging towards european standards in all areas. i have certainly supported this report and rewarded the efforts of the serbian people.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed to vote against the kosovo progress report as it (indirectly) seals the recognition of kosovo's statehood.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the kosovo progress report as it (indirectly) seals the recognition of kosovo's statehood.
in writing. ‒ gue/ngl does not recognise kosovo as state. our group tabled amendments on this particular subject. furthermore, we do not agree with the neoliberal economic reforms in the 2015 report on kosovo. i voted against this report, since i reject the structural political and economic program for kosovo’s progress in light of european enlargement negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the furthermore, the pseudo-state of kosovo has unilaterally declared its independence, which is contrary to un security council resolution 1244, which provides for autonomy for kosovo within serbian territory. we also note that in a relevant report of the council of europe, the current foreign minister and former prime minister of the pseudo-state, hashim thaçi, is accused of setting up a network of illegal trafficking in human organs. we note the systematic persecution and threats faced by the christians of kosovo, the majority of whom are serbs. we note that kosovo is on the list of the ten countries with the highest percentage of people directly involved in daesh islamic terrorism. we also note that the nationalist movement, the vetevendosje, which calls for union with albania, receives 14% of the votes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ it is insulting and ridiculous that we are discussing the prospect of kosovo-metohija region joining the european union. the enlargement that is being promoted under the pretext of european integration and cohesion serves the interests of economic and geopolitical power centres.
in writing. ‒ we vote against the motion for a resolution, the union and many of the member states, after first destroying libya to serve their own interests, now appear ready to promote yet another military intervention, which will plunge the country into greater chaos. we therefore strongly disagree with the union's approach.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution because the union and many of the member states, after first destroying libya to serve their own interests, now appear ready to promote yet another military intervention, which will plunge the country into even greater chaos. i therefore strongly disagree with the union's approach.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in libya for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 3/2/2016 and because the joint motion for a resolution is not complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ the union and many of its member states, having first destroyed libya to serve their own interests, now appear ready to push for yet another military intervention, which will only succeed in plunging the country into even greater chaos.
in writing. ‒ the hope of the libyan people for a state on the way to development, with strengthened democratic structures and full respect for human rights and freedoms remains alive. with this initiative, which i voted in favour of, we are sending a message of hope to our southern border.
in writing. the commissioner also stressed that the eu should be able to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of migration. this will cause a significant increase in the number of illegal immigrants that our country will receive.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. this will cause a significant increase in the number of illegal immigrants that my country will receive.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the special status of islands for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 4/2/2016 and because this motion for a resolution is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ this text provides for the financial support of island regions to deal with the mass arrival of illegal immigrants. but this will only cause a further increase in the number of illegal immigrants already arriving in our country.
in writing. ‒ island-based nature is a key feature of my home country of greece. the islands, especially the smaller and more remote ones, are in many cases the hubs of life and culture on the frontiers of europe. we must encourage the people, especially the islanders, to remain in their own country and to preserve their natural and cultural heritage. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ we support rural development as a prerequisite for sustainable development in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report, as i consider rural development to be a key condition for sustainable development in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the context of the european structural and investment funds because it is comprehensive and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ rural development is a key prerequisite for the sustainable development of the member states of the union.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is a good example of multilevel governance. it should not be forgotten that the role of local communities is crucial for the effectiveness of european projects and the absorption of resources. regional and local authorities must be key partners in shaping and shaping policy, with the common aim of improving the lives of citizens.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against, it is finally time for the union to take action against saudi arabia, this terrorist state, and we hope that it will not just be in words, but actually impose an arms embargo and ideally economic sanctions. in any case, we will denounce any retreat by the union towards saudi arabia.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against all the reports on the humanitarian situation in yemen, as it is finally time for the union to take action against saudi arabia, this terrorist state, and i hope that it will not just be in words, but actually impose an arms embargo and, ideally, economic sanctions. in any case, i will denounce any retreat by the union towards saudi arabia.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the vote on the joint motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen, in agreement with the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. ‒ it is time for the union to take action against saudi arabia, this terrorist state, by imposing an arms embargo. in any case, we will denounce any retreat by the union towards saudi arabia.
in writing. ‒ the eu must support, with its aid and assistance, the right of peoples to live in a peaceful, stable and prosperous society in every corner of the globe, and also raise humanitarian concerns internationally. i supported the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against because, although the motion for a resolution is moving in a generally positive direction, we find it unacceptable that they are trying so hypocritically and insidiously to pass on the financing of turkey, which is one of the main causes of the conflict in the first place, in an otherwise good resolution.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the systematic mass extermination of religious minorities by isis in all the reports because, although the motion for a resolution is generally moving in a positive direction, i find it unacceptable that they are trying so hypocritically and treacherously to pass on the financing of turkey, which is one of the main causes of the conflict in the first place, in an otherwise good resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, since i condemn the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by isis. furthermore, i call for the establishment by the eu of a permanent special representative for freedom of religion and belief. i stress also the importance to provide protection and aid to all groups targeted by the isis/daesh organisation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the systematic mass killings of religious minorities by the so-called 'isis/daesh' because it is comprehensive and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ although the motion for a resolution is moving in the right direction in general, we find it unacceptable that they are trying, so hypocritically and insidiously, to pass on this funding to turkey, which is one of the main causes of the conflict in the first place.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour, we join forces in the common struggle against the darkness, fanaticism and violence spread by terrorists. christian populations as well as sunni muslims are being persecuted and killed daily by is. the people of these areas need us, we must act immediately to put an end to their daily suffering.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i listened carefully to what you said, mrs. sargentini. is the refugee problem due to the summits you mentioned, or to the fact that there is no willingness on the part of all the member states to agree to the relocation decisions, and that the european union is also applying a more pressure policy on turkey to comply with what it has signed up to on the readmission of economic migrants?
the commission the european council has shown that the structure of the european union in its present form has no future. at some point, soon, things will move much faster than this dysfunctional organism can react. the british people need special treatment if and when they remain in the union, because that is how they safeguard the interests of their citizens and their national sovereignty. but other countries should be entitled to achieve the same. the member states, of course, and the union itself, have easily yielded to the demands of the united kingdom, but a short while ago they strangled greece by forcing its people into poverty. but this is not equal treatment, it is not european solidarity, it is not any of the lies on which this union is built. as regards the other council conclusions, however satisfied you may be with the arrival of nato in the aegean, know that the greek people consider this move as a betrayal, both by the government and by our supposed allies, who are petting turkey, a state sponsor of terrorists that has no place in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission the european council has also expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and has called for the eu to take action to help the countries of the region. if the vote is no, there is no further negotiation. the united kingdom, great britain as we have called it for a long time, winston churchill's speech in zurich in 1947 that first spoke of a united states of europe, the will of the people of scotland, wales, northern ireland raises a question: does this referendum risk the united kingdom, great britain, becoming little england, marginalized in europe and the world? migration: we are investing in strengthening schengen, we are investing in protecting european borders, not in closing european borders. turkey is part of the problem, but also part of the solution. it equalises the migration with its integration process, it leaves smugglers unchecked, it accepts all citizens of north african countries without visas, it does not apply the readmission protocol, it does not accept any of the illegal refugees back. we must all work together responsibly and seriously to find solutions. i am sure that europe is willing, able and able to do so.
the commission madam president, turkish slave traders continue to send thousands of refugees to greece, skopje, with the help of austria, is closing the border, with the result that greece is in danger of becoming a vast refugee haven, while france, germany, denmark, austria, sweden and now belgium have suspended schengen. the hypocrisy surrounding the relocation continues, since of the 66,400 refugees that the european union has committed to take in from greece, not even 400 have been relocated. greece, while remaining in the schengen area, is a magnet for thousands of refugees, since it grants them schengen travel documents, which allow them to travel to germany. that's why the refugees risk drowning in the aegean instead of going from bulgaria to germany. the only solution is for greece to withdraw from schengen, close its borders and entrust the protection of its maritime borders to the greek navy and the coast guard. in addition, greece should make use of the derogation clause in article 72 of the treaty and cease to apply dublin 3 on grounds of public policy and internal security.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the we know, madam president, that the commission's policy on refugees has been and is hypocritical. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. where are the powerful, unassailable institutions of the european union, which imposed memoranda, which imposed blackmailing austerity policies? now it's other people's fault, or now you can't do it. your responsibilities: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of moving towards a europe of peace and security. and what do you do provocatively ? you want to bring back the dublin regulation. what else did you do? the european union has been involved in the conflict in the middle east for a long time, and it is not just the european union that is involved in the conflict. so make it clear that with what you do you want to put all the burden on greece... the president interrupts the speaker.
the commission madam president, we are making it clear that it is the implementation of the dangerous council decisions, and not their violation, that has led to the mass entrapment of thousands of desperate refugees in greece. the council adopted the recommendations of 12 february which, in applying schengen, provide for border controls, giving the green light to everything: closed borders, fences, a refugee ceiling, the selection of those who have the specifications of cheap labour for the monopolies, with the confiscation of those who do exist and the deportation of the rest. this is the capitalist barbarity that brings about imperialist war, the cause of refuge. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody in the country, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. these are the european union and nato. in their chains, the peoples are in constant danger. the european union must therefore continue to support the people's struggle against imperialist wars, support the uprooted in their confrontation with racist fascist forces and demand measures to transport refugees directly to their final destination.
the commission madam president, vice-president dombrovskis, joint action must be our guide. but what happens is not just a matter of joint action. what about the forced relocation to the refugee camp? is the commission prepared to activate a sanctions mechanism, i.e. cutting funds from agricultural subsidies and the structural funds for member states which refuse to take refugees on their territory, or create obstacles, as is the case with the referendum in hungary? what about border patrol? can nato act on the basis of what has been agreed, overcoming the non-international objections raised by turkey? our message must be one: the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world.
the commission madam president, once again we are in the same play as the commission proposes the same well-known failed recipe: merkel austerity, forced fiscal adjustment and implementation of the anti-social stability pact. but this will not reduce the poverty, unemployment and underdevelopment that afflict the peoples of the european south and the greek people. the european bureaucracy and the banking system are interfering with the economic policy of the member states of the union through the european semester, overriding the will of the european peoples and the sovereign rights of parliaments to formulate national budgets freely. madam president, greece continues to groan under the boot of the troika which is destroying the social security system, destroying the homes of the greek people, stealing taxes from the greek people, reducing the pensions of the most disadvantaged and destroying the greek farmers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, according to the commission, the excessive influx of immigrants, illegal or not, will have adverse economic effects in the short term, while in the medium and long term it will help the economy due to an increased supply of cheap labour. you're wrong. if not, commit a crime! so far, about a million cheap labour, as you call them, are waiting in greece to find work in the european union. you are mistaken if you think that by taking greece out of the schengen area, imposing intolerable memoranda and sentencing it to death you will also stop the mass influx of illegal immigrants, jihadists and criminal islamic extremists who exploit the refugee influx to enter europe. all of them, sooner or later, will end up in your countries. how will you discover and stop the criminal evidence in time? how will you educate, sustain, nurture and integrate into local communities, the millions of immigrants? already many of them wish to impose the law of islam by force. the problem is not economic but social, religious, ethnic and, above all, european.
gue/ngl), in writing. the european commission's annual growth survey for the european union in 2016, which is being discussed today, with its subtitle on strengthening the recovery and promoting convergence of the economies of its member states, sounds paradoxical to say the least. the fact is that instead of convergence we have a constant divergence, with the southern mediterranean member states trapped in a vicious circle of austerity-recession-new austerity. moreover, the whole of the union, and in particular the eurozone, is experiencing anemic growth compared with the usa and china, while real household incomes are falling, through the steadily worsening compression of wages, in the name of allegedly boosting competitiveness. we need demand-stimulating policies at the european level and greater solidarity between member states. and we also need an authentic pan-european deposit guarantee scheme to boost depositors' confidence in the banking systems of the euro-area countries and to finance their economies with healthy new resources. when the cost of borrowing in greece is over 10% and in germany it is close to 1%, competition becomes unfair and the divergence of economies is constantly increasing. we must put an end to the hypocrisy and change economic policy before it is too late.
the commission the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity. while we are discussing the eures programme, which aims to promote the mobility of workers within the european union and to help citizens of the member states to seek work in another eu country, at the same time as the brexit arrangements, the eu heads of state or government have decided to drastically restrict the rights of all mobile workers. the right to receive benefits in kind is not a right to receive benefits in kind, but a right to receive benefits in kind. this means discrimination against union citizens on the move as against citizens of the host states. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the fact that the european union is a political force, a political force which is not only a political force but also a political force. they left greece because of the troika and the memorandum and now merkel and the merkelists, with the consent of the syriza/anel coalition, are imposing a new memorandum on them that reduces their salaries and makes them second-class citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, while the troika is impoverishing greek farmers and dismantling the agricultural sector, while the creditors are imposing a harsh tax-avoidance policy against the rural world and dismantling their insurance system and the oga, while greek olive producers have suffered enormous losses from the severe weather events last year that affected their production, at the same time comes the decision of the european union granting a duty-free import quota of seventy thousand tons of tunisian oil for 2016 and 2017. this union action is a grave for impoverished greek producers, who are already seeing their oil prices collapse this year. why does the legislative proposal apply the duty-free import of tunisian oil retroactively from 1 january 2006? who does he want to cover? who does he want to favor? mrs malmström, the olive growers of crete, the olive growers of lesbos, the island overrun by thousands of refugees, cannot take another blow below the waist.
s & d) and the madam president, in 1998 it was decided for the first time to support both police measures and preventive and curative measures. but that was not the case. we have stuck to the declarations and so we have reached today where eighty per cent of the available resources are being channelled into police campaigns, which have proved to be a total failure. unfortunately, all they offer is the illusion that there is a powerful persecutor. but the king is naked. in order to return to the european level, it is necessary to offer treatments to small users as alternatives to imprisonment, as well as to offer such treatment programmes for prisoners. finally, it is very important that supervised use centres are operational, which not only save the lives of users, but also prevent the transmission of infectious diseases to the general population. think about it, every life saved in a supervised-use facility means an extra bed in an intensive care unit. what relative of a needy man wouldn't beg for it?
the commission madam president, in a period of enormous global economic crisis, poverty and unemployment, in a period of intensified global refugee and migration flows, in a period of deteriorating social cohesion in the big cities of europe, the united states, asia and latin america, in a period of increased smuggling, crime and drug trafficking, the un conference on drugs could, under certain conditions, be a beacon of hope. an opportunity for global cooperation in the following areas: the european union has a duty to help the victims of the drug trade and the cultivation of drugs. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of penalties for drug trafficking in the eu, which would be based on the principle of zero tolerance. the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to ensure that the use of drugs is not restricted to the general public, and that the use of drugs should be prohibited in all member states. so let's get to it.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. the austrian government has convened an extra-institutional meeting with the participation of the western balkan countries, most of which are not even members of the european union, with the stated aim of putting pressure on greece to ensure the protection of the union's external borders in the refugee crisis. but nobody tells us how this can be done in the few miles of sea between the greek aegean islands and the turkish coast without having mass drownings of people who are not criminals but simply seeking a better fate. the pressure must not be on greece but on the turkish regime, which tolerates the smugglers in violation of its agreements with the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, we welcome the presence here of the european ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, and congratulate her on her re-election. the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014 highlights the important work of the institution in ensuring good administration and protecting the rights of citizens, which is now becoming more accountable and transparent within the european union, not only in relation to its institutions but also to informal bodies such as the eurogroup and the troika, which are known to take harsh and consequently anti-social measures and impose them on countries that have signed a memorandum. in this context, it is of particular importance that the european central bank was forced, following the actions of the ombudsman, to publish its letter to the irish government on the economic crisis, thus proving the interventionist policy of the ecb towards ireland. however, important steps still need to be taken in relation to the monitoring of the functioning of the troika, so the ombudsman must investigate the conflict of interest between the role of the european central bank, as a member of the troika, as the creditor of the memorandum member states, and the mandate of the ecb under the treaty. the same applies to the conflict of interest within the commission between the commission's role in the troika and its responsibility as guardian of the treaties. in a phase of intense refugee flows, there must be control and accountability of frontex itself, while in relation to ttip it is a given that the mediator must step up her action because there is a lack of transparency and accountability. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. in fact, until recently, ministers from the eu member states had to visit the local us embassies to receive the ttip documents.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, we trust the european ombudsman because it remains one of the few institutions of the european union that european citizens can trust. at a time when europe is experiencing its greatest existential crisis, when it is unable to protect human rights, as is shown by the images of the suffering of refugees, images that take us back to the 1930s, the institution of the european ombudsman is a pillar of transparency and respect for the rights of citizens. we welcome and support the european ombudsman's call on frontex to set up an independent mechanism for individual complaints about violations of the fundamental rights of refugees and call on it to investigate this issue further by turning its attention to the drama unfolding at the borders of the european union, to the europeans, to the people who are fleeing behind the wire for the rights to life and who remain trapped today in idomeni, athens and piraeus.
the commission madam president, mrs o'reilly's effort is commendable, considering the short time since she was elected. the role of the european ombudsman in helping the institutions of the european union to become more open, efficient and citizen-friendly, with a view to strengthening citizens' trust in the union, is very difficult. the idea of european integration must be accompanied by greater transparency and control of its institutions. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external relations. in addition, there is a 20% of the ombudsman's proposals which the institutions have not complied with. there is still a long way to go in areas such as transparency, the rule of law, ethics, the fight against corruption in the management of conflicts of interest in the public sector, transparency in clinical trials and, above all, openness in the ttip negotiations. in this connection, i support the increase in the annual budget of the european ombudsman's office, but i would also like to see the legal binding of the ombudsman's suggestions considered.
the commission madam president, in many member states of the union, if not in all of them, the smuggling rates of tobacco products are much higher than those provided by the statistical services because of political and economic interests. the illegal tobacco trade has two aspects to consider: the interplay of politicians of all parties across europe, and the intrusive role of the big tobacco companies, who claim the lion's share of a large and profitable market. the interests are enormous and the budgetary implications at community and national level are immediate. the tobacco industry interacts at all levels of the decision-making process. for example, the four largest companies agreed to pay $2.15 billion to avoid legal penalties after lawsuits were filed. if they were innocent, they wouldn't pay such a huge amount. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. in greece in particular, tobacco retailers are the big losers as the weak link in the market, while the losses to the public lead to increased unemployment, reduced insurance contributions and increased public health risk from smoking contraband cigarettes. the ratification of the world health organization's protocol on illicit tobacco and the implementation of independent tracing is a first step. we must also deal with the taxation of hookah tobacco, which has never been counted and for which there is no evidence of profits being lost, the refill liquids for e-cigarettes, which in some countries coincide with the excise duty, and the suppression of the markets of foreigners and illegal immigrants in which the illegality is impossible to control because of ghettos.
the commission madam president, as early as 2004, philip morris and the european commission signed a 12-year cooperation agreement to combat the illicit trade in cigarettes, to which the member states of the union have also acceded. however, the commission is postponing the publication of the evaluation of the agreement with philip morris. why is that ? why is the european parliament, the supremely democratic institution, not informed? what is the added value of this agreement? the european union and the member states must take serious measures to tackle cigarette smuggling, both for the protection of health and to combat tax evasion. at the same time, measures should be taken, particularly in greece, to support small-scale tobacco growers and retailers of tobacco products. we are waiting for your answers, madam vice-president, because this is a very serious matter, and you realize that all our colleagues have asked key questions.
the rapporteur. madam president, i thank the house for voting in favour of the report which contains several criticisms of the actions of the european central bank and the troika. of course, there are aspects of the report, as in any report, which do not express the rapporteur, such as the third part of paragraph 15. i shall put my views on all this in writing in the minutes. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of authorising austria to sign and ratify, and malta to accede to, the hague convention of 15 november 1965, as that convention has proved useful in the field of cross-border supply of documents and in the successful establishment of a system whereby documents of a judicial and extrajudicial nature in civil or commercial matters can be served on a state which has signed and acceded to the convention.
in writing. ‒ the we have voted today on the recommendation concerning the draft council decision authorizing austria to sign and ratify and malta to accede to the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters in the interests of the european union. it is clear that such proceedings are concerned with the proper functioning of the justice system, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the signature and ratification by austria and the accession of malta to the hague convention of 15 november 1965 is something we are in full agreement with. we note, however, that it is regrettable that independent states must seek the union's approval to accede to conventions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the signature and ratification by austria and the accession of malta to the hague convention of 15 november 1965 is something i find absolutely agreeable. i would like to point out, however, that it is regrettable that independent states have to seek the union's approval to accede to conventions.
ecr), in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising the republic of austria to sign and ratify and malta to accede to the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters, in the interest of the european union, on the ground that it is incomplete.
in writing. ‒ austria's ratification and signature of and accession to the hague convention of 15 november 1965 is something we are in full agreement with. it is regrettable that independent states seek the union's approval to accede to conventions.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is an important step in the efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion by ensuring the automatic exchange of financial transaction information, with a view to international tax cooperation and compliance. the eu and the republic of san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial situations of their residents as of 2017 with this report, with the aim of addressing situations where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the vote on the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments is a formal but important procedure concerning transparency in financial transactions within the european area. i think that this is a positive step and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the eu-san marino agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the republic of san marino is a well-known tax haven and therefore the exchange of tax information is in the interest of international tax cooperation and compliance with the relevant provisions.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information between the eu and san marino signed on 8 december 2015. as regards the effort in order to clamp down on tax fraud and evasion, directive 2003/48/ec is only limited to taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments on debt claims, to the exclusion of the issues relating to the taxation of pension and insurance benefits. hence, this new agreement aims at ensuring that san marino applies strengthened measures, equivalent to the eu legal framework. particularly, it will help to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income for which taxes have not been paid. therefore, i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on the proposal for a council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, because it is not complete and because it does not, moreover, effectively combat tax evasion and tax avoidance, since it is based on oecd standards which, as is well known, allow for the existence of 'grey areas' which facilitate tax evasion and tax avoidance, not only of various individuals, but also of multinational enterprises through tripartite relationships.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the republic of san marino is a well-known tax haven and therefore the exchange of tax information serves international tax cooperation and compliance with the relevant provisions.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is a positive development that the council has recommended a decision on the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, but at the same time it is necessary to immediately resume negotiations on the directive on the protection of the european communities' financial interests in order to effectively tackle fraud against the budget of the european union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 july 1995, the protocol of 27 september 1996, the convention on the protection of the european communities' economic interests, the protocol of 29 november 1996, the second protocol of 19 june 1997 and the convention on the protection of the european communities' economic interests. it is understood that the accession of croatia was necessary for its functioning as a member state of the european union. i therefore consider this to be a positive move and have decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ croatia has always followed a firm anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the name of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc.
in writing. ‒ croatia has always followed a firm anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the naming of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc. i am against croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the union's financial interests and i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with some procedural aspects of the accession of croatia to the conventions concluded by the member states. in fact, the 2011 accession treaty of the republic of croatia provides a simplified system for the accession of this country to these conventions. consequently, the commission recommends that it will be for the council to determine the date on which these conventions shall enter into force for croatia and to make the necessary adjustments. given this simplified system and the right of a sovereign state to accede to an international convention, i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 july 1995 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, to the protocol of 27 september 1996 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union, to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, to the protocol of 29 november 1996 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on the interpretation of the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests by the court of justice of the european communities with preliminary rulings in the first and second parts of the fourth chamber of the court of first instance, and to the protocol of 29 november 1996 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on the interpretation of the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, drawn up on the basis of article 19 (3) of the treaty on european union, which is annexed to the treaty on european union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ croatia has always followed a firm anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the naming of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report as it aims to improve the existing european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and further integration of labour markets. this will be done by involving the social partners at all levels of the network, defining for the first time crossborder partnerships, better informing employers and workers, requiring network members to publish available jobs and cvs on the network, requiring private employment services to perform all the tasks as members of the network (unless they can reasonably demonstrate that they are not able to, in which case they must perform only some of the tasks listed).
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the today's vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and the further integration of labour markets affects a large proportion of european citizens. it is therefore very important to ensure that such a move is guided by principles of respect for citizens' rights and does not disrupt positive elements that may already exist, but rather reinforces them. i think it is a positive step, particularly in view of the improvement of the eures job search mechanism, and that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the updating of the regulation, which has already been agreed with the council, will allow greater involvement of the 'social partners' (employers and trade unions) and will focus more on cross-border areas and young people. the new, 'smarter' eures portal will automatically match cvs with suitable jobs on offer without any discrimination on the basis of nationality. all job vacancies published by public bodies in the member states will be made available on a pan-european basis via the same web portal. we are opposed to this report because we are against crossborder work and the mobility of workers. member states should have the option not to participate in the eures network.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the updating of the regulation, which has already been agreed with the council, will allow greater involvement of the 'social partners' (employers and trade unions) and will focus more on cross-border areas and young people. the new, 'smarter' eures portal will automatically match cvs with suitable jobs on offer without any discrimination on the basis of nationality. all job vacancies published by public bodies in the member states will be made available on a pan-european basis via the same web portal. i am voting against this report because i am against crossborder work and the mobility of workers. member states should have the option not to participate in the eures network.
in writing. ‒ it is important to underline that intra-eu labour mobility is a key element of freedom of movement and of european citizenship and represents an opportunity in order to boost economic growth. despite high levels of unemployment, there are still vacancies in many regions within the member states that remain, deplorably, unfilled. steps must be taken to ensure that all jobseekers can obtain comprehensive information about employment conditions. in this context, the report deals with the proposal for a regulation that aims to update the eures job mobility portal by extending the number of partners offering mobility services, by consolidating cooperation between public and private organisations and by focusing more on young people. this is why i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ referring to my speech of 24 february 2016 to the european parliament's plenary, i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and further integration of labour markets, because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. the eures network is not only not going to provide relief to the unemployed, but on the contrary it is another elaborate mechanism for undermining the right to permanent, stable work with rights which, as the commission has recently stated, it does not recognise. this 'network' has existed for decades, and is now being rebuilt, always in a reactive direction, to further 'promote mobility' for the 'well-adapted' workforce. the 'private employment offices' are now included, i.e. the employment offices, including the well-known 'employment agencies' and the employers' organisations themselves. they are upgraded, that is, they are legalized and willfully, the slave trade offices to supply the capitalists with cheap and "flexible" labor, without rights, for temporary and poorly paid jobs, as much as the boss wants. the gue and the meps from syriza, as well as the other parties on the european road (nd, pasok, potami) voted in favour, as they agree with the perpetuation of capitalist exploitation to ensure the profits of capital. unemployment is interwoven with the rotten capitalist system that the eu and the parties of bourgeois management serve. the only way out is to strengthen the working people's struggle to overthrow it so that the people become the owners of the wealth they produce.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the updating of the regulation, which has already been agreed with the council, will allow greater involvement of the 'social partners' (employers and trade unions) and will focus more on cross-border areas and young people. the new, 'smarter' eures portal will automatically match cvs with suitable jobs on offer without any discrimination on the basis of nationality. all job vacancies published by public bodies in the member states will be made available on a pan-european basis via the same web portal. we are opposed to this report because we are against crossborder work and the mobility of workers. member states should have the option not to participate in the eures network.
in writing. the eures network is not only not intended to provide relief to the unemployed, but on the contrary is yet another sophisticated mechanism for undermining the right to permanent, stable work with benefits which, as the commission has recently stated, it does not recognise. this 'network' has existed for decades, and is now being rebuilt in a reactive way to further 'promote mobility', to 'adapt' the workforce. the 'private employment offices' are now included, i.e. the employment offices, including the well-known 'employment agencies' and the employers' organisations themselves. they are upgraded, that is, they are legalized and the slave trade offices are forced to supply the capitalists with cheap and "flexible" labor, without rights, for temporary and poorly paid jobs, as much as the boss wants. the gue and the meps from syriza, as well as the other parties on the european road (nd, pasok, potami) voted in favour, as they agree with the perpetuation of capitalist exploitation to ensure the profits of capital. unemployment is interwoven with the rotten capitalist system that the eu and the parties of bourgeois management serve. the only way out is to strengthen the working people's struggle to overthrow it so that the people become the owners of the wealth they produce.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the after the arab spring, tunisia is the model country in the process of transition to democracy. the european union, in an effort to help the country, both politically and economically, has decided to import an additional 35 000 tonnes of olive oil free of duty. with the amendments tabled - and i co-signed them with other socialist meps - we tried to put in place some conditions under which the tunisian economy could be supported and we would not have a negative impact on greek and european olive oil production. unfortunately, these amendments were not voted on by the house, and i have therefore voted against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ negative as a whole. this is another operation that completely ends the production of oil in italy and greece.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report since i believe that these emergency measures will harm the european olive economy, especially after the terrorist attacks. however we should try to find another way, which will not affect our european economy and european producers of olive oil, especially in the south.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of emergency autonomous trade measures to the republic of tunisia, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 24 february 2016.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the eu-tunisia agreement for the duty-free import of 75,000 tonnes of olive oil into the eu for 2016-2017 is another painful blow from the eu to poor greek olive growers. the agreement comes as the cap has dealt a crushing blow to small and medium-sized farmers and the syriza-anel coalition government together with the eu and imf is seeking the coup de grace with barbaric anti-people measures. it coincides with the attempt to strike at the just struggle of the poor peasant because he is fighting in the blockades for survival. the lies that the deal is being made to "counter terrorism" and "promote the democratization" of tunisia, do not mislead anyone. the main objective is to lower the producer price of olive oil so that intermediaries and wholesalers can continue to buy cheap and sell expensive. the workers will buy the oil at a high price, while the poor producers will be enslaved to exploitation. the agreement serves only the profits of large business groups in the transport, export, import, distribution and marketing chain. the poor peasant girl can draw her own conclusions. its own way is its struggle in alliance with the working class and the other poor popular strata against the monopolies and their power, and their imperialist associations that serve them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the eu-tunisia agreement for the duty-free import of 75,000 tonnes of olive oil into the eu for 2016-2017 is another painful blow from the eu to poor greek olive growers. the agreement comes as the cap has dealt a crushing blow to small and medium-sized farmers and the syriza-anel coalition government together with the eu and imf is seeking the coup de grace with barbaric anti-people measures. it coincides with the attempt to strike at the just struggle of the poor peasant because he is fighting in the blockades for survival. the lies that the deal is being made to "counter terrorism" and "promote the democratization" of tunisia, do not mislead anyone. the main objective is to lower the producer price of olive oil so that intermediaries and wholesalers can continue to buy cheap and sell expensive. the workers will buy the oil at a high price, while the poor producers will be enslaved to exploitation. the agreement serves only the profits of large business groups in the transport, export-import, distribution and marketing chain. the poor peasant girl can draw her own conclusions. its own way is its struggle in alliance with the working class and the other poor popular strata against the monopolies and their power, their imperialist associations that serve them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation. it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and training to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the union's financial assistance to workers who are made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i therefore vote in favour of the report approving the application egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass, for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from belgium is a positive move and in essence a confirmation of the usefulness of the adaptation fund for the benefit of working european citizens. in this context, it is obvious that this is a positive move and i have decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we do not need skilled unemployed people, that is why i am voting against the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass - belgium.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial discipline, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european parliament, by this resolution, expresses its views on the european commission's recommendations on the economic policies of the member states of the european union and the euro area. unfortunately, greece, as a programme participant, is not included in the european semester process and the european commission's recommendations. i voted in favour of the report because many of the main points of our group's proposals were included, although, because of the reaction of the conservative forces in parliament, important points were left out.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination and the annual growth survey for 2016. this effort is part of the general trend towards tightening austerity policies which are leading to further deterioration rather than to a response to the economic crisis. i therefore decided not to support the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the aligning the fiscal and economic policies of the member states with the eu's imperatives imposes a continuous and deep recession on economically weak countries, while promoting the interests of strong ones. the operation of the european semester leads to complete economic control of greece so that it is not able to implement a national economic policy to get out of the crisis, but is constantly at the mercy of germany and other economically powerful countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the european semester on economic policy coordination: annual review of development for 2016. aligning the fiscal and economic policies of the member states with the eu's imperatives imposes a continuous and deep recession on economically weak countries, while promoting the interests of strong ones. the operation of the european semester leads to complete economic control of greece so that it is not able to implement a national economic policy to get out of the crisis, but is constantly at the mercy of germany and other economically powerful countries.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the commission’s communication on the annual growth survey (ags) as part of the european semester. unemployment undoubtedly negatively affects economic growth as well as social convergence. an important improvement is that the ags underlines the need to pay more attention to social fairness and, for this purpose, to reform programmes by adding three employment indicators: activity rate, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment. i recognise that the report presents an interesting analysis of the goals of this communication, for instance the eradication of poverty or of the gender pay gap in order to tackle unemployment. nevertheless, there are aspects that need to be reviewed: the aforementioned indicators remain lacunar, the concept of ‘social fairness’ needs to be clarified, the enhanced simplification of employment legislation that could reduce employee protection. for these reasons, i voted against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the european semester on economic policy coordination: annual review of development for 2016, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 24/2/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliament's reports on the 'european semester', the mechanism for enforcing 'permanent memoranda' in all eu member states, demonstrate the commitment of the political staff of the monopolies to its objectives: measures to permanently reduce the price of labour everywhere in order to revive the profitability of business groups, to bring about capitalist growth which until now seems anaemic, uncertain and fragile. this is why they demand that the bourgeois governments implement unconditionally the 'country-by-country' schemes, the anti-people measures that the eu institutions are creating. to deal with popular indignation they try to dress the whole process of the six-month and the "enhanced economic governance" allegedly with "social aspects" and "social sensitivity", but they fail to formulate even eulogies, betraying their hostility to workers' and popular rights. the six months and all the procedures of the eu's "memoranda of understanding" cannot have a trace of a "social aspect", because they were simply designed, implemented and served a single plan to strike every labor, wage, social right of the working class and the poor popular strata. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. the eu and the monopolies it serves only get worse. they get no improvement, only a reversal.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the aligning the fiscal and economic policies of the member states with the eu's imperatives imposes a continuous and deep recession on economically weak countries, while promoting the interests of strong ones. the operation of the european semester leads to complete economic control of greece, so that it is not able to implement a national economic policy to get out of the crisis, but is constantly subject to germany and other economically powerful countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliament's reports on the 'european semester', the mechanism for enforcing 'permanent memoranda' in all eu member states, demonstrate the commitment of the political staff of the monopolies to its objectives: measures to permanently reduce the price of labour everywhere in order to revive the profitability of business groups, to bring about capitalist growth which until now seems anaemic, uncertain and fragile. this is why they demand that the bourgeois governments implement unconditionally the 'country-by-country' schemes, the anti-people measures that the eu institutions are creating. to deal with popular indignation they try to dress the whole process of the six-month and the "enhanced economic governance" allegedly with "social aspects" and "social sensitivity", but they fail to formulate even eulogies, betraying their hostility to workers' and popular rights. the six months and all the procedures of the eu's "memoranda of understanding" cannot have a trace of a "social aspect", because they were simply designed, implemented and served a single plan to strike every labor, wage, social right of the working class and the poor popular strata. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. the eu and the monopolies it serves only get worse. they get no improvement, only a reversal.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the european semester on economic policy coordination: employment and growth overview for 2016, because it sets out the economic priorities and economic objectives for the year ahead. it also includes the assessment of the social and employment situation in the eu and is the first year to include specific recommendations for the euro area. high-quality jobs, equal opportunities and fair mobility are key principles of european social cohesion.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on the european semester on the coordination of economic policies on employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2016. this effort is part of the general trend towards integration and intensification of labour market deregulation policies leading to a weakening of labour rights. i therefore decided not to support the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the in its first year of office, the commission presented ambitious initiatives to support employment and growth, strengthen economic convergence and enhance social justice. but unfortunately, there has been no progress. today, with its annual review of development for 2016, it sets out the priorities for the year ahead. the resolution adopted by the committee on employment on 17 february, by sofia ribeiro (epp, portugal), advocates the inclusion of the latest employment indicators in the annual review of development in order to monitor social developments in the member states. the report does not, however, agree with us on many points. the refugee and migration issue, for example, is referred to as having a positive impact on labour supply and growth, 'subject to conditions'.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the in its first year of office, the commission presented ambitious initiatives to support employment and growth, strengthen economic convergence and enhance social justice. but unfortunately there has been no progress. today, with its annual review of development for 2016, it sets out the priorities for the year ahead. the resolution adopted by the committee on employment on 17 february, by sofia ribeiro (epp, portugal), advocates the inclusion of the latest employment indicators in the annual review of development in order to monitor social developments in the member states. the report does not agree with me on many points. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it also argues that member states should make full use of the possibility of using the efsi in conjunction with other eu funds under the horizon 2020 programme, the connecting europe facility and the european structural and investment funds. finally, it supports intra-eu labour mobility throughout the union (eures). i therefore vote against this report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is economy policy coordination. this means deepening of emu governance for more stability and convergence, and improving parliament’s role in decision-making on the european semester’s priorities and recommendations. however, i voted against the report since the proposed policy mix does not take into consideration the issue of rising poverty, inequalities and social exclusion in the eu.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the european semester on economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey for 2016, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 24/2/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliament's reports on the 'european semester', the mechanism for enforcing 'permanent memoranda' in all eu member states, demonstrate the commitment of the political staff of the monopolies to its objectives: measures to permanently reduce the price of labour everywhere in order to revive the profitability of business groups, to bring about capitalist growth which until now seems anaemic, uncertain and fragile. this is why they demand that the bourgeois governments implement unconditionally the 'country-by-country' schemes, the anti-people measures that the eu institutions are creating. to deal with popular indignation they try to dress the whole process of the six-month and the "enhanced economic governance" allegedly with "social aspects" and "social sensitivity", but they fail to formulate even eulogies, betraying their hostility to workers' and popular rights. the six months and all the procedures of the eu's "memoranda of understanding" cannot have a trace of a "social aspect", because they were simply designed, implemented and served a single plan to strike every labor, wage, social right of the working class and the poor popular strata. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. the eu and the monopolies it serves only get worse. they get no improvement, only a reversal.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the in its first year in office, the commission presented ambitious initiatives to support employment and growth, strengthen economic convergence and strengthen social justice, but unfortunately no progress was made. today, with its annual review of development for 2016, it sets out the priorities for the year ahead. the resolution adopted by the committee on employment on 17 february, by sofia ribeiro (epp, portugal), advocates the inclusion of the latest employment indicators in the annual review of development in order to monitor social developments in the member states. the report does not, however, agree with us on many points. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it also argues that member states should make full use of the possibility of using the efsi in conjunction with other eu funds under the horizon 2020 programme, the connecting europe facility and the european structural and investment funds. finally, it supports intra-eu labour mobility throughout the union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliament's reports on the 'european semester', the mechanism for enforcing 'permanent memoranda' in all eu member states, demonstrate the commitment of the political staff of the monopolies to its objectives: measures to permanently reduce the price of labour everywhere in order to revive the profitability of business groups, to bring about capitalist growth which until now seems anaemic, uncertain and fragile. this is why they demand that the bourgeois governments implement unconditionally the 'country-by-country' schemes, the anti-people measures that the eu institutions are creating. to deal with popular indignation they try to dress the whole process of the six-month and the "enhanced economic governance" allegedly with "social aspects" and "social sensitivity", but they fail to formulate even eulogies, betraying their hostility to workers' and popular rights. the six months and all the procedures of the eu's "memoranda of understanding" cannot have a trace of a "social aspect", because they were simply designed, implemented and served a single plan to strike every labor, wage, social right of the working class and the poor popular strata. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. the eu and the monopolies it serves only get worse. they get no improvement, only a reversal.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016 because it includes the area of growth and the creation of additional jobs through the help provided by effective competition. the integration of the single market as a pillar of the european semester should also include benchmarks and specific indicators referring to the single market as a whole.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016 as i do not agree with the new model of investment behaviour it presents. everything for money, not for citizens, not for nations, not even for countries.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 24/2/2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliament's reports on the 'european semester', the mechanism for enforcing 'permanent memoranda' in all eu member states, demonstrate the commitment of the political staff of the monopolies to its objectives: measures to permanently reduce the price of labour everywhere in order to revive the profitability of business groups, to bring about capitalist growth which until now seems anaemic, uncertain and fragile. this is why they demand that the bourgeois governments implement unconditionally the 'country-by-country' schemes, the anti-people measures that the eu institutions are creating. to deal with popular indignation they try to dress the whole process of the six-month and the "enhanced economic governance" allegedly with "social aspects" and "social sensitivity", but they fail to formulate even eulogies, betraying their hostility to workers' and popular rights. the six months and all the procedures of the eu's "memoranda of understanding" cannot have a trace of a "social aspect", because they were simply designed, implemented and served a single plan to strike every labor, wage, social right of the working class and the poor popular strata. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. the eu and the monopolies it serves only get worse. they get no improvement, only a reversal.
in writing. ‒ aligning the fiscal and economic policies of the member states with the eu's imperatives imposes a continuous and deep recession on economically weak countries, while promoting the interests of strong ones. the operation of the european semester leads to complete economic control of greece so that it is not able to implement a national economic policy to get out of the crisis, but is constantly at the mercy of germany and other economically powerful countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliament's reports on the 'european semester', the mechanism for enforcing 'permanent memoranda' in all eu member states, demonstrate the commitment of the political staff of the monopolies to its objectives: measures to permanently reduce the price of labour everywhere in order to revive the profitability of business groups, to bring about capitalist growth which until now seems anaemic, uncertain and fragile. this is why they demand that the bourgeois governments implement unconditionally the 'country-by-country' schemes, the anti-people measures that the eu institutions are creating. to deal with popular indignation they try to dress the whole process of the six-month and the "enhanced economic governance" allegedly with "social aspects" and "social sensitivity", but they fail to formulate even eulogies, betraying their hostility to workers' and popular rights. the six months and all the procedures of the eu's "memoranda of understanding" cannot have a trace of a "social aspect", because they were simply designed, implemented and served a single plan to strike every labor, wage, social right of the working class and the poor popular strata. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. the eu and the monopolies it serves only get worse. they get no improvement, only a reversal.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the in october 2015, the european commission opened negotiations with tunisia for the signing of a comprehensive free trade agreement. the agreement could create opportunities for both sides. the socialist group calls on the commission to ensure transitional periods, transparency during the negotiations and an improvement in the social conditions in the country.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the european parliament resolution on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia concerns the economic sphere, but also has political implications. tunisia is a country with close links to europe and with special economic links. although these discussions have been going on for some time, i believe that not only have many issues concerning such an agreement not been resolved, but above all the form of this agreement is not the right one and does not protect the interests of european citizens and member states. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ negative overall for the simple reason that the eu should first deal with its internal problems of unemployment and the economy and then solve those of african countries. greece is extinguishing and the eu is financing and importing low-cost tunisian products.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the opening of negotiations on an eu-tunisia free trade agreement for the simple reason that the eu would do well to deal first with its internal problems of unemployment and the economy and then solve those of african countries. greece is extinguishing and the eu is financing and importing low-cost tunisian products.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to establish a trade agreement between european union and tunisia. however, this trade agreement should focus also on a debt restructuration. as a gue/gnl group, we would like also to see the tunisian civil society involved in the negotiations for the trade agreement. at this stage of the process, the trade agreement does not help the tunisian economy. since it is focusing on market liberalisation. i voted against for the abovementioned reasons.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 24/2/2016, and also because the free trade agreement under vote will allow the total import of tunisian oil and other agricultural products into the eu and especially into greece on a two-year basis, which will economically harm greek farmers impoverished by the memorandum and will create serious problems for the smooth development of our country's primary industries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu should first deal with its own internal problems of unemployment and the economy and then solve those of african countries. greece is extinguishing and the eu is financing and importing low-cost tunisian products.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014 because it deals with complaints from eu citizens, associations and businesses about possible maladministration by eu bodies or other institutions. the activities of the european ombudsman help the european institutions to become more efficient, better governed and more citizen-friendly.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014 concerns an important part of the european reality. the efforts to speed up and improve judicial procedures in europe are very much a matter for the european ombudsman, and in this sense his role is important. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the priority should be to fight corruption within the institutions, not to target frontex officials or to allegedly fight non-existent discrimination.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the effort of mrs o'reilly is commendable, considering the short time since she was elected. the role of the european ombudsman in helping the eu institutions to become more open, efficient and citizen-friendly, with a view to strengthening citizens' trust in the union, is very difficult. the idea of european integration must be accompanied by greater transparency and control of its institutions. taking into account the eurobarometer survey of last may, citizens' confidence in the eu is only 40%, while the lack of it is 46%. in addition, there is a 20% of the ombudsman's proposals that the institutions have not complied with. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. for the above reasons, i am voting in favour of the report on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur presents the traditional annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman, in this case regarding the activities undertaken in 2014, which was a particular year since the european ombudsman began to implement the new strategy ‘towards 2019’. the ombudsman is empowered to receive complaints concerning maladministration in the activities of eu institutions. in this context, the report welcomes the key inquiries initiated by the ombudsman, notably the transparency in lobbying activities and within the european institutions, the ‘revolving door’ cases concerning high-ranking eu officials’ activities, as well as fundamental rights and ethical issues. additionally, there are subjects of particular interest in which the ombudsman is invited to pursue investigations, particularly the lack of transparency in the ttip negotiations and the respect for the welfare of returnees during return flights in frontex procedures. given these facts, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the annual activity report of the european ombudsman for 2014, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 24/2/2016, and because the report is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the effort of mrs o'reilly is commendable, considering the short time since she was elected. the role of the european ombudsman in helping the eu institutions to become more open, efficient and citizen-friendly, with a view to strengthening citizens' trust in the union, is very difficult. the idea of european integration must be accompanied by greater transparency and control of its institutions. taking into account the eurobarometer survey of last may, citizens' confidence in the eu is only 40%, while the lack of it is 46%. in addition, there is a 20% of the ombudsman's proposals that the institutions have not complied with. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the in this annual report of the european central bank, the european parliament expresses its opinion on the work of the european central bank during 2014. the ecb has a positive and key role in shaping unconventional monetary policy operations. however, it is clear that there are also some limits to what monetary policy alone can achieve and therefore it is clear in the final report that there is also a need for more targeted investment and structured and socially balanced reforms with a positive note. finally, as a group of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, we have succeeded in working with other political groups to emphasize in the report, which i voted in favour of, that there should also be a comprehensive evaluation of the ecb's participation in the troika and quartet and that the responsibilities it assumes should be clear, so as to ensure the democratic accountability of each institution in the adoption and implementation of rescue programmes.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the 2014 annual report of the european central bank must concern and affect millions of european citizens. the european central bank is aware that the decisions taken and the policies pursued play a special role within the member states. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european central bank, which is to be adopted by the end of the year.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report's one sentence illustrates the essence of the european central bank's existence, but also the economic policy of germany and, by extension, the european union. paragraph 11: endorses the european central bank's firm commitment to make every effort to protect the euro, which it made in august 2012. everything for money, not for citizens, not for nations, not even for countries. it is clear that the so-called stability of the euro is simply a means of enforcing germany's economic interests, and therefore part of the problem. to be part of the solution, the european union must change direction. and that can only be done with nationalist governments that empower the citizen, the family and the nation against money.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the my vote is no. the report's one sentence illustrates the essence of the european central bank's existence, but also the economic policy of germany and, by extension, the european union. paragraph 11: endorses the european central bank's firm commitment to make every effort to protect the euro, which it made in august 2012. everything for money, not for citizens, not for nations, not even for countries. it is clear that the so-called stability of the euro is simply a means of enforcing germany's economic interests, and therefore part of the problem. to be part of the solution, the european union must change direction. and that can only be done with nationalist governments that empower the citizen, the family and the nation against money.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report for the reasons i stated in my speeches as rapporteur in the debate held in the european parliament's plenary on 1/2/2016, also noting the following: the report i produced on the ecb's annual report for 2014, as submitted in august 2015, was comprehensive and particularly harsh on the ecb's record. the report after the vote retains several criticisms of the ecb's neoliberal policy. paragraphs 13 and 30 of the report, referred to in the judgment of the court of justice of the eu c-62/14, on the one hand open the way for a haircut of the ecb bonds and on the other call for the expulsion of the ecb from the troika. paragraphs 30,31,32 are harshly critical of the role of the troika and call for its scrutiny by the european parliament. paragraphs 19, 22, 25 and the provisions of the first part of paragraph 15 which refers to the audit of the debt are relevant. of course, there are aspects of the final report with which i do not agree, such as the controversial remainder of paragraph 15, which could however be understood as accepting debt restructuring provided that it is not done ad hoc, but on the basis of the provisions in the text and provided that it does not reignite the debt crisis.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report's one sentence illustrates the essence of the european central bank's existence, but also the economic policy of germany and, by extension, the european union. paragraph 11: endorses the european central bank's firm commitment to make every effort to protect the euro, which it made in august 2012. everything for money, not for citizens, not for nations, not even for countries. it is clear that the so-called stability of the euro is simply a means of enforcing germany's economic interests, and therefore part of the problem. to be part of the solution, the european union must change direction. and that can only be done with nationalist governments that empower the citizen, the family and the nation against money.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this oral question to the european commission concerns its intention to open negotiations on free trade agreements with australia and new zealand. in this opening of negotiations we have managed to include provisions for strong occupational safety and minimum required transparency, while ensuring that these negotiations will not in any way impede other agreements already in force or the bilateral agenda and the corresponding open negotiations currently under way with these countries. the political group of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament voted in favour of this decision as it is our wish that negotiating capitals on the creation of strong trade links and sustainable development be included in all trade negotiations starting with australia and new zealand. the group also wants to put to the vote again its rejected amendment on the creation of a joint civil society forum to monitor the implementation of the agreement and the respect of the commitments and obligations of each contracting member.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against this motion for a resolution because we do not believe in the benefits of free trade agreements and we reject the proposal to open negotiations with australia and new zealand. the conclusion of the eu-australia and eu-new zealand free trade agreements will transform reciprocal trade and investment relations, particularly in the agricultural and livestock sectors, with market implications and potential risks for european economic operators.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this motion for a resolution because i do not believe in the benefits of free trade agreements and i reject the proposal to open negotiations with australia and new zealand. the conclusion of the eu-australia and eu-new zealand free trade agreements will transform reciprocal trade and investment relations, particularly in the agricultural and livestock sectors, with market implications and potential risks for european economic operators.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, since it is not a fair trade agreement and does not benefit all parties. we are against a simple market liberalisation. the trade agreement between australia and new zealand should also not include the investor to state dispute settlement, since it is a biased system which promotes enterprises over states.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand because it is not complete and well documented, and also because the free trade agreement under vote will allow australia and new zealand to import their livestock and agricultural products to the eu, and in particular to greece, on a permanent basis, which will be economically harmful to the greek farmers and livestock farmers who have been impoverished by the memorandum and will create serious problems for the normal development of our country's primary industry as well as greek food production businesses.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we do not believe in the benefits of free trade agreements and reject the proposal to open negotiations with australia and new zealand. the conclusion of the eu-australia and eu-new zealand free trade agreements will transform reciprocal trade and investment relations, particularly in the agricultural and livestock sectors, with market implications and potential risks for european economic operators.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the aim of this motion for a resolution is to introduce compatible systems for the registration of pet animals between the eu member states. although there is a general consensus amongst the political groups in the ep on the need to register and identify pet animals across europe, the spd group wants the decision to focus more on combating the growing illegal trade in pet animals by strengthening the existing legislation and the pet travel system. the proposal from the group of the party of european socialists, which i voted in favour of, calls on the member states to improve the interaction and compatibility of their registration and identification systems, so that there is greater traceability and a reduction in illegal trade.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the this report highlights the positive contribution of pets to the lives of millions of individual owners and families across the eu, and confirms that owners must be able to move their animals in a safe and controlled manner across the union. we are voting against all the reports on the proper vaccination, identification and registration of pet animals, as it ensures the protection of public and animal health and also the possibility of effective traceability within the union to eliminate illegal trade.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the this report highlights the positive contribution of pets to the lives of millions of individual owners and families across the eu, and confirms that owners must be able to move their animals in a safe and controlled manner across the union. i am voting in favour of all the reports on the proper vaccination, proper identification and registration of pet animals, as it ensures the protection of public and animal health and also the possibility of effective traceability within the union to eliminate illegal trade.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the joint motion for a resolution on the establishment of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals in the member states, because it contributes to the positive impact of pet animals on the lives of millions of individual owners and their families across the eu.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the this report highlights the positive contribution of pets to the lives of millions of individual owners and families across the eu, and confirms that owners must be able to move their animals in a safe and controlled manner across the union. we are voting against all the reports on the proper vaccination, proper identification and registration of pet animals, as it ensures the protection of public and animal health and also the possibility of effective traceability within the union to eliminate illegal trade.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the resolution follows the debate in the european parliament in early february. the humanitarian situation in yemen, as it has been since the civil war, is dramatic, as more people die in yemen every day than in syria. the resolution condemns the actions of both the saudi-led coalition of forces supporting the government and the houthi rebels. in an amendment tabled by the socialist group and four other political groups, we call on the european union to consider imposing an arms embargo on saudi arabia because of the possibility that these weapons could be used in violation of international humanitarian law.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the european parliament resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen is an attempt to express europe's support for any action to protect the rights of civilians and against any cruel strategies, policies or practices being practised. the european union is also committed to the peace process in yemen, and we are convinced that the peace process in yemen is a necessary step towards the establishment of a just and lasting peace. i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the we shall vote only if amendments nos 2 and 3 are rejected and amendment no 1 is adopted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. if we vote in favour, it will be because this resolution, paradoxically, takes a correct and objective stance, does not directly involve itself in the internal affairs of yemen, condemns saudi arabia and even proposes an arms embargo against it, which we support. if we vote against it, it will be because the amendments which have been adopted alter the real nature of the resolution and serve once again political expediency and economic interests.
in writing. ‒ this motion for resolution calls the eu to promote compliance with international humanitarian laws and to raise a dialogue with the civil society in saudi arabia. this resolution calls also for establishing an eu arms embargo against saudi arabia since the country does not respect international humanitarian law with yemen. only a political, inclusive and negotiated solution to the conflict can restore peace and preserve unity in yemen. for those reasons i voted in favour of the resolution.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the joint motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen because it is not complete.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of malnutrition in greece. according to the prevention research institute, six out of ten greek students in 2013-2014 did not have access to adequate quality food. furthermore, for the 2014-2015 school year, 53% of students' families are food insecure and 21% are affected by hunger. this shows that european aid for the supply of fruit and vegetables and even dairy products to greek schools is half-baked and insufficient to tackle child malnutrition in greece, which has been facing a humanitarian crisis in recent years. it must be made clear to all sides that the eradication of malnutrition in schools cannot wait, as the health of children is at stake. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget, and that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budgetary authority.
the commission i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. i am very much aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's food aid is not used to the detriment of the environment, and that the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the community's food aid is used to the detriment of the environment. i would of course like to point out that with the austerity policies being implemented by the european union this diet will perhaps be the only one that some greek children will have access to, since we have a huge increase in unemployment and many parents are unable to provide even the basic necessities for their children since they have zero income. at the same time, there is no welfare state to provide for them, as the limited resources available are now primarily directed towards meeting the needs of migrants.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health of the european union is not compromised by the fact that the european union is not a member of the european union. this is how we manage to control the quality of animal feed and also to detect, prevent and treat diseases which are transmitted to animals and then transmitted to consumers through the products they consume (meat, milk and cheese). the globalisation of trade and climate change pose serious risks to both animal and consumer health and the european union should therefore simplify and intensify checks on animals imported from outside the european union in order to ensure food safety and prevent the transmission of diseases to consumers. the need for this is illustrated by my own country, greece, which is frequently the target of smuggled sheep and goats, mainly from turkey but also from skopje, which have not undergone the required checks and therefore pose a health risk to both domestic breeds and consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures.
the commission mr president, in order to ensure a high level of public health and food safety, measures to prevent and reduce the impact of animal diseases should be increased first. all member states of the union should therefore promote animal husbandry and welfare practices to reduce any threats to public health. in addition, the various types of surveillance carried out by animal health groups should be better used to ensure a more efficient use of resources. finally, there should be a simplified legislative framework in the european union for the protection of animal health, public health and animal welfare, and this means, among other things, reducing the use of antibiotics in livestock farming, using appropriate animal feed and controlling the import of animals, especially sheep, from turkey and skopje, where animal diseases are widespread and where there are no adequate animal health controls. in fact, sheep diseases from turkey have been transmitted to evros and other areas of greece, causing damage to greek farmers who have been impoverished by the memorandum and who should be compensated immediately and receive financial support from the european union.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs intended for human consumption is a very good one. it is no coincidence that 75% of the european union's trade and 38% of intra-community trade is carried by sea, which indicates the importance of the sector. the regulation we are about to vote on in the house is therefore designed to boost the efficiency of european ports and improve the overall quality of port services with a view to modernising them. it also creates conditions for fairer competition, reduces legal uncertainty, enhances transparency and improves the allocation of public resources. only the creation of a stable legal environment governed by fair conditions of competition and specific rules of transparency can attract investment in ports, contributing to the development of the european union economy, especially in times of economic crisis. the new legislation also gives ports greater autonomy in setting port charges. this increases competition both between european ports and between ports of the european union and third countries. in addition, it provides for a number of provisions favourable to small ports in order to avoid disproportionate administrative burden and additional fees and costs. europe needs such legislative initiatives that highlight the common interests between member states and stimulate the single internal market. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
ppe), answer to a question with blue card thank you so much for asking. i would like to say that our text is perfectly balanced in the area you have just mentioned, because it also provides for a fair distribution of fees and costs for the smaller ports, which have hitherto been burdened. i would like to say that the text also covers this aspect in its entirety, and that it contains balanced amendments, which were tabled after a great deal of discussion between the political groups.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the scope of the regulation was limited to port organization and the transparency of economic transactions. there are no provisions on the deregulation of industrial relations and the uncontrolled opening up of markets. many stakeholders and most unions supported our work. we have succeeded in getting the result far from the commission's original objectives. on this basis the proposal to be negotiated with the council provides good protection for workers in matters of safety and health, strengthens the right to education and training and will act as a bulwark against further attacks on working conditions. it provides for the environmental sustainability of port services, and all this in conditions of transparency. i want to thank the rapporteur for his work. i urge you to vote in favour of the compromise amendments adopted in blocs and to give mr fleckenstein the mandate to open negotiations with the council and the commission. the member states and governments must now demonstrate their readiness to make strong commitments against social dumping and in favour of safeguarding safe working conditions in ports. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
gue/ngl), reply to a question with a blue card i do not believe that there is an attempt to mislead parliament. i believe that there are good and bad compromises, and here we are dealing with a good, decent compromise that protects basic rights.
the commission madam president, it is important to institutionalize the existence and operation of services and mechanisms to combat fraud in the european union. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. for example, it is self-evident and necessary to simplify the rules and procedures concerning public expenditure and revenue from own resources in order to limit non-fraudulent irregularities, which for 2014 amounted to a total of eur 362 million and eur 176,2 million respectively. however, it is self-evident and necessary to review the council and commission decision to provide assistance of eur 3 billion to turkey, when the report on combating fraud points out that it is the main protagonist of the flagrant irregularities linked to the pre-accession aid funds and especially those related to cross-border cooperation. the union is on the verge of fraud when the anti-fraud office sounds the alarm about turkey's credibility. do the european institutions and the leaders of the member states still believe that giving funds will limit the flow of migrants into europe? how many more of you want to be told that turkey is a fraud?
the commission madam president, according to the report, the budget of the european union can be safeguarded through olaf, which has the role of detecting and investigating cases of fraud and corruption as well as other illegal activities. however, the total of irregularities reported for 2014 amounts to approximately eur 3,24 billion, and the budgetary impact of the irregularities reported is 36% higher than in 2013. in addition, olaf, which was set up by the european union to combat corruption and fraud within its member states, does nothing to help combat tax fraud in the european union and the tax evasion and profit shifting of multinational companies to tax havens. it is therefore necessary for olaf to contribute more actively to the fight against tax evasion by multinationals and to make a practical contribution to the fight against any illegal activity affecting the european union.
the commission madam president, we have often pointed out that the funds invested in the field of new information technologies in the european union are less than those invested in the united states and japan. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the community. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's maritime borders. but it must also protect the citizens of the member states, and therefore further market liberalisation, particularly in the services sector, as is being attempted with tisa, must be stopped. in other words, the european union must, among other things, recognise and propose a clear framework for addressing the risks associated with the digitalisation of the economy for workers, both in terms of jobs and their mental and physical health, by ensuring that citizens have access to the internet, which is not a matter for the oral question.
ecr), in writing. the integration of the gender dimension in the european parliament is essential in order to promote gender equality and to combat discrimination and violations of rights against women in various eu member states. in particular, in the current financial crisis, gender discrimination is particularly acute in the labour market, with a pay gap of 16.4% and a pension gap of 39%. it is noted that in countries such as greece, which are affected by the memorandum policies, women are the biggest victims. in order to eliminate these disparities, the eu should therefore impose transparency in labour and pension systems and also ensure that the commission's influence on women's rights and gender equality is strengthened when drawing up aspects of the eu budget related to gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament. finally, in order to eliminate gender discrimination, the eu should put an end to austerity policies that particularly affect women's rights.
the commission madam president, the refugee crisis in greece has now reached explosive proportions, with 40,000 refugees trapped so far and a further 100,000 at the end of the month. turkey continues to support the trafficking of refugees to the aegean islands and resettlement has remained on paper as of the 60,400 refugees less than 400 have left greece. the european union's policy has turned greece into a vast refugee camp. the only solution is for the greek people to rely on their own strength. greece must therefore leave the schengen area, so that it no longer acts as a magnet for refugees coming to my country instead of bulgaria, because greece as a schengen country grants refugees schengen travel documents, which allow them to reach germany. in addition, greece should suspend dublin iii, impose an economic embargo on skopje and albania in retaliation, in order to force these countries to open their illegally closed borders to the trapped refugees, as the un secretary-general ban ki-moon has said.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. the european union, even in its present form, cannot exist without respect for common struggles, common responsibilities and common commitments. it is at least ironic to talk about a united europe with closed borders, impoverished peoples and thousands of impoverished refugees. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. joint decisions and commitments are not implemented. the international treaties have been turned into a piece of paper and the european commission is reduced to wishlists. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you really think that the solution is financial trade-offs? the only solution is safe routes for refugees and their proportionate reception by all the countries of the european union.
madam president, once again we are talking about inequality, or rather the issue of equality between men and women. we're not honored to have this conversation, but it needs to happen. i am pleased that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the representation of women on boards of directors. i recently had the honour of presenting a paper on the glass ceiling, the obstacles faced by women in their quest to reach the top, and what do we see? women are underrepresented; only 31% of entrepreneurs are women, self-employed women, whereas the eu 2020 strategy's target is, as you know, to cover about 75%, but women are underrepresented, as i said, at all levels: in business, in finance, in senior management, in science, research, technology, academia. and how can this phenomenon be lifted? there are two roads: the nursery called school, the nursery called education, education, the nursery called family. because if these prejudices are not removed and if new concepts are not born through the promotion of correct standards and achievements of women, then we will again arrive in five years, in ten years to talk about inequalities; a discussion that distinguishes women from men, that does not recognize that women are people and half the planet. it is a debate that does not honour our values, does not honour our principles, does not honour women, does not honour europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the demands of today's consumer society have driven women into a race to the top, but women have the divine gift of childbearing. the present economic situation allows them to have at most one child. that is how we say that europe is ageing. shouldn't families be supported financially so that mothers can take care of their children themselves? have they been questioned? is there any evidence of what most women want? is what we're talking about what career women want?
madam president, in view of today's celebration of international women's day, we should point out that, in the period of the financial crisis we are experiencing, and particularly in the countries impoverished by the memoranda, women are the biggest victims, as their rights are violated every day both at the social and at the workplace level. in the workplace, there is a gender pay gap of 16.4% and a corresponding pension gap of 39%. in addition, discrimination in the recruitment process is observed in workplaces, and in countries such as greece, which is affected by memoranda and austerity policies, the new anti-insurance bill has pushed women self-employed to spend over 80% of their annual income on contributions and taxes, while targeting women farmers. the european union must stop impoverishing the countries of the european south if it is to put an end to the discrimination between the sexes.
madam president, congratulations to all the working women who continue to fight for their rights! it seems that strasbourg is not only separated from brussels by 440 km, but by an abyss. while we in the european parliament are discussing a report calling for the humane protection of women refugees, the european council in brussels says that austria and the other countries have closed their borders. and some governments are going overboard with racism, saying they don't accept muslims on their soil. while we are calling for safe and legal routes for refugees and migrants, the council is making a cruel bargain with turkey: for every refugee woman granted asylum, one migrant will be forced to return to turkey. the un high commissioner for refugees is right when it says that such an agreement between the eu and turkey may be illegal, because it would violate both international and european law. i call on you to vote for the report by mrs mary honeyball . (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr. grandi, you are the un high commissioner for refugees. unfortunately, as reality shows, you're probably not doing very well at your job. it is not entirely your fault, of course, but rather that of your other colleagues at the un, those colleagues of yours who did not react to the imperialist and neo-colonial policies of the powerful western states which have invaded or bombed almost half the planet. where was the un when the west tore apart afghanistan, syria, iraq, libya, ukraine, almost half of africa and many other countries? where was the un when the big multinational corporations, not just the western ones of course, were exploiting the labor of millions of people in the least developed countries, so that they could make super profits and serve the monster of overconsumption? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. you must act immediately. you must take measures to stop the fire of war that is burning syria and other countries and to allow migrants to stay in their homelands to help their development. we must all work together to preserve the distinctive identities of all of us, both our own and those of our countries of origin, so that we do not create a multicultural soup, at the mercy of multinationals. as far as my country is concerned, the situation is becoming more desperate every day. apart from the responsibilities and the ideologies of governments, which have confused humanism with legality and recklessness, what is the un's response? what have you done to prevent greece, already hard-pressed by the economic crisis, from turning into a vast camp? we've had enough of words and postponements! we need no more; we need solutions and we want them now! unfortunately, it turns out that you are unable or unwilling to provide them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as this law modernises the animal health law, obliging all breeders and competent bodies to respect the principles of good animal husbandry and to apply biosecurity measures to protect them. the responsible and prudent use of veterinary medicinal products is also made compulsory and the list of diseases covered by the law is adopted in line with the decision of the parliament and the council.
in writing. ‒ positive, because good and proper treatment of animals lays the foundations for their good health. the immediate consequence: a reduction in the use of antibiotics, which indirectly affects humans. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the recommendation because the good and proper treatment of animals lays the foundations for their good health. the immediate consequence: a reduction in the use of antibiotics, which indirectly affects humans. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the final outcome of the trilogue negotiations between the commission, the parliament and the council, which emphasises the preventive role of the proposed regulation on animal diseases transmissible to animals or humans, and the consequent expected reduction of the use of antibiotics in animals. it is important to underline that the union has a well-developed acquis regarding animal welfare, which covers different species or activities. however, the actual legislation is considered insufficient due to the lack of an overall strategy. the proposal’s aim is to upgrade this legislation and to provide a common system in order to prevent and tackle transmissible animal diseases in a coordinated way. despite this improvement, the new framework contains several unclear aspects that treat different animal categories under the same notion. it is a matter of concern that this could serve to decrease the legal protection of some categories. therefore, i decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on transmissible animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the field of animal health (animal health act), for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/3/2016, and because the recommendation is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ good and proper animal welfare is the foundation for good health. the immediate consequence: a reduction in the use of antibiotics, which indirectly affects humans.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the resolution is a recommendation for second reading and endorses, inter alia, the joint statement by parliament, the council and the commission on antimicrobial resistance and the use of veterinary medicinal products.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against the report on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments, because it referred to the distribution of milk in schools and the fruit and vegetable programme in schools. there was a need to streamline and improve the efficiency of the systems, not least because of criticism from the court of auditors. the report also ensures the future of school systems. furthermore, management will now be more efficient through a single and visible programme, where the milk programme will run alongside the fruit and vegetables strand. the aim is to promote the consumption of healthy products, fresh food, by school children, helping them to establish healthy eating habits, especially for cases of obesity. the budget is contained in this text and allows the member states to plan this action in the medium and long term.
in writing. ‒ the today's vote on the report amending regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 as regards the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments comes at a crucial time for europe and in particular for certain regions still affected by the economic crisis. i think we should support any action that aims to protect and improve the conditions of school feeding, thereby helping children throughout europe to eat better. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ positive, because it is important to provide fruit and vegetables and milk in schools, especially now that the economic crisis, especially in southern europe, does not allow children to eat properly. the commission has also proposed that special emphasis be given to remote areas where some of the products can be produced.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it is important to provide fruit and vegetables and milk in schools, especially now that the economic crisis, especially in southern europe, is not allowing children to eat properly. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to achieve better coordination between the milk scheme and fruit scheme, so that both programs become more efficient. it is also essential that member states should prioritise the distribution of fresh products. we manage also to achieve that products containing added sugar, salt and fat will not be authorised automatically but only after analysis by national health authorities. i voted in favour of this report in order to improve both schemes but also to reach a better use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 as regards the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7 march 2016 and because the report is not complete.
in writing. ‒ the the regulation is not intended to provide free school meals but to support and subsidize food processing groups. it even defiantly states that its purpose is to instill "healthy eating habits" in children, at a time when the barbaric anti-people policies of the eu and governments are continually forcing thousands of ordinary families to send their children to school fasting. the real aim of the eu, with this regulation, is to subsidize the large dairy companies and the food packaging, processing and marketing monopolies. the regulation therefore included in the subsidised products various processed fruit and vegetables, fruit-based milk drinks, cocoa, etc., i.e. products which the companies concerned promote for consumption by young people in order to increase their customers and to advertise them, even receiving a subsidy! and all this not for the whole year but for a sample, just 20 pieces of fruit and 4-5 euros per year for each child. the workers' and people's movement to demand the daily provision of a free lunch to all schoolchildren from the state budget, opposing the anti-people policy of the eu and governments and their fake programs that they manufacture to strengthen monopolies.
in writing. ‒ providing fruit and vegetables and milk in schools is important, especially now that the economic crisis, especially in southern europe, is not allowing children to eat properly. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr marc tarabella of the committee on agriculture and rural development. the report deals with the very urgent issue of combating undernourishment among children, but also with the equally important issue of proper nutrition for children and the fight against childhood obesity. as the eu, we must ensure that the rights and benefits acquired by citizens are guaranteed in a transparent, quality and secure manner.
in writing. ‒ the the regulation is not intended to provide free school meals but to support and subsidize food processing groups. it even defiantly states that its purpose is to instill "healthy eating habits" in children, at a time when the barbaric anti-people policies of the eu and governments are continually forcing thousands of ordinary families to send their children to school fasting. the real aim of the eu, with this regulation, is to subsidize the large dairy companies and the food packaging, processing and marketing monopolies. the regulation therefore included in the subsidised products various processed fruit and vegetables, fruit-based milk drinks, cocoa, etc., i.e. products which the companies concerned promote for consumption by young people in order to increase their customers and to advertise them, even receiving a subsidy! and all this not for the whole year but for a sample, just 20 pieces of fruit and 4-5 euros per year for each child. the workers' and people's movement to demand the daily provision of a free lunch to all schoolchildren from the state budget, opposing the anti-people policy of the eu and governments and their fake programs that they manufacture to strengthen monopolies.
in writing. ‒ the this report recognises the need to establish a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency in ports. the aim of the report is to promote port development, the smooth functioning of the single market and the creation of an environment favourable to port and shipping activity, balancing the interests of port managers and users of port services. at the same time, a reasonable margin of discretion is given to member states to decide for themselves on matters concerning the navigation service and it is ensured that social and labour rules will not be affected by this report by ensuring additional training of port workers, avoiding potential accidents and ensuring the highest possible level of safety and health of workers in this sector. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency in ports. i think that the attempt to ensure financial transparency in all aspects or sectors of the economy is an important process and therefore i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to freedom of establishment, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to freedom of establishment for workers in the transport sector.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because, although the amendments may be generally positive and favour not only maritime transport but also the protection of workers, no one is guaranteeing that the sale of ports to private companies, and even to non-european interests, will be prohibited.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to establish a framework on market access to port services and financial transparency of ports. we amended the report, so the proposal could respect subsidiarity and the sovereignty of each member state. it is essential that each member state has the right to decide which authority and managing body will be in charge for the ports’ organisation. we achieved also, to defend workers’ rights on social conflict as well as the right of collective actions. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for access to the market for port services and financial transparency in ports, in agreement with the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the the 'access to the market for port services' regulation opens the way to the 'liberalisation of port services' for monopolies. the eu, in the interests of european business groups, does not establish a uniform way of delivering port services to capital, leaving it to governments to define in each country the way and form of this, according to the interests and aspirations of each bourgeoisie, amid fierce competition for the expansion of their activities and the increase of their profitability. the implementation of the regulation also paves the way for further attacks on the rights of workers in ports. the kke group, in voting against the regulation, stresses that ports and their services, whether in the form of direct delivery to capital or through the exploitation of the bourgeois state, serve the profits of monopolies by crushing labour rights and imposing conditions of bargaining. the kke contributes to the development of the people's struggle in opposition to the monopolies, their power, the associations of capital such as the eu, because only in this way can the ports and the infrastructure of the country become the people's property and be used by the workers' and people's power, integrated into a national scientific project with the criterion of meeting social needs.
in writing. ‒ the the 'access to the market for port services' regulation opens the way to the 'liberalisation of port services' for monopolies. the eu, in the interests of european business groups, does not establish a uniform way of delivering port services to capital, leaving it to governments to define in each country the way and form of this, according to the interests and aspirations of each bourgeoisie, amid fierce competition for the expansion of their activities and the increase of their profitability. the implementation of the regulation also paves the way for further attacks on the rights of workers in ports. the kke group, in voting against the regulation, stresses that ports and their services, whether in the form of direct delivery to capital or through the exploitation of the bourgeois state, serve the profits of monopolies by crushing labour rights and imposing conditions of bargaining. the kke contributes to the development of the people's struggle in opposition to the monopolies, their power, the associations of capital such as the eu, because only in this way can the ports and the infrastructure of the country become the people's property and be used by the workers' and people's power, integrated into a national scientific project with the criterion of meeting social needs.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the harmonisation of consumer price indices because it provides statistical information on price stability which is vital for correcting macroeconomic imbalances in the eu. rationalization must be achieved by a clearer scope, maintaining separate treatment for health, education and other specific sectors, reducing the margin for interpretation of the rules, ensuring uniform treatment of similar product groups in all member states, removing redundant parts of the legislation, and clarifying provisions that had been misinterpreted in the past. in addition, incomplete statistics were partly responsible for the economic crisis that began in 2008. this new legislation improves the quality of consumer price indices, which are important for correcting macroeconomic imbalances in the eu.
in writing. ‒ decision-making on eu economic and monetary policy should be based, inter alia, on statistics that are as objective, unbiased and comparable as possible across all member states and across all product sectors. new developments in consumer price statistics require a revision of the framework in order to ensure maximum comparability for the main users of hicp.
in writing. ‒ decision-making on eu economic and monetary policy should be based, inter alia, on statistics that are as objective, unbiased and comparable as possible across all member states and across all product sectors. new developments in consumer price statistics require a revision of the framework in order to ensure maximum comparability for the main users of hicp. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the report on harmonised consumer price indices and the repeal of regulation (ec) no 2494/95.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the improvement of the existing framework on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicp) and of housing prices (hpi) at union, national and sub-national level. it is important to highlight the necessity for these indices to be objective and easily comparable across all member states. additionally, the new developments in the field of consumer prices statistics make it necessary for the existing framework to be revised in order to ensure maximum comparability for the users of hicp. i welcome the commission’s proposal for a regulation as it lays down a uniform legal framework for the development and dissemination of data on hicp. however, it is deplorable that the proposed regulation could constitute, in the future, a legal basis for the production of indices for some controversial items such as narcotics, prostitution, games of chance, etc., in case their degree of methodological harmonisation improves sufficiently. in order to express my concern about the aforementioned fact, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices and repealing regulation (ec) no 2494/95 because it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ decision-making on eu economic and monetary policy should be based, inter alia, on statistics that are as objective, unbiased and comparable as possible across all member states and across all product sectors. new developments in consumer price statistics require a revision of the framework in order to ensure maximum comparability for the main users of hicp.
in writing. ‒ the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which i supported, sets out the necessary conditions for the revision of the regulation in force since 1995, which is also deemed necessary by the new developments in consumer price statistics.
in writing. ‒ the this annual report of the european parliament on the protection of the eu's financial interests for the year 2014 specifically refers to the fight against corruption. the report makes clear that in 2014 there was an increase in the overall impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities compared to the previous year. the european parliament therefore encourages the european commission to maintain its strict policy and to provide, inter alia, full transparency on the relationship between national law enforcement authorities and the european anti-corruption office. the socialist group believes that this report provides a clearer picture of the main challenges to the protection of economic interests in the eu, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the 2014 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud. such procedures concern matters of vital importance for the present and future of the union and it is particularly important that they be treated seriously. given the particularly acute extent of the problems of corruption in the political, economic and social spheres, we see that reports which go into the issue in depth, such as this one, help to defend the rule of law and i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the existence and functioning of independent services and mechanisms to combat fraud in the european union is important. the funds allocated by the eu to member states and third countries must be monitored for their proper management, in order to reduce the phenomena of their exploitation by national governments for the benefit of their own petty interests, and to avoid illegal agreements with large companies to the detriment of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the existence and functioning of independent services and mechanisms to combat fraud in the european union is important. the funds allocated by the eu to member states and third countries must be monitored for their proper management, in order to reduce the phenomena of their exploitation by national governments for their own petty interests and to avoid illegal agreements with large companies to the detriment of citizens. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the report on the protection of the eu's financial interests - fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ the commission and the member states implement together almost all of the eu budget. they have then the duty to overcome corruption and irregularities. the report by the committee on budgetary control (cont) suggests how to avoid non-fraudulent irregularities. i voted in favour of this report, since i believe we should develop a system to measure corruption and to measure the effectiveness of the anti-corruption policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the 2014 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests combating fraud for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7 march 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the existence and functioning of independent services and mechanisms to combat fraud in the european union is important. the funds allocated by the eu to member states and third countries must be monitored for their proper management, in order to reduce the phenomena of their exploitation by national governments for their own petty interests and to avoid illegal agreements with large companies to the detriment of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the the report focuses on the eu's political objectives through better governance, transparency and the implementation of effective control rules, and proposes to enhance the european parliament's role in this. the report focuses on the detection and reporting of irregularities, and deals with budgetary issues, tobacco smuggling and investigations by the european anti-fraud office (olaf), whose annual report it takes into account. i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe in the importance of integrating the gender dimension into the work of the european parliament. to make this a reality, gender mainstreaming needs to be a continuous and integrated process, incorporating gender equality at all stages and in all areas of policy-making.
in writing. ‒ the the motion for a resolution on gender mainstreaming, which we voted on today, is part of a multilateral effort to maintain conditions of equality and equal opportunities in europe and its institutions. it is therefore understandable that this effort is a key instrument for improving the functioning of parliament and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - we vote against. the report introduces a fundamental gender discrimination, it does not promote meritocracy but instead introduces quotas, a measure which has proven counterproductive over time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the integration of the gender dimension in the work of the european parliament. the report introduces a kind of discrimination on grounds of sex, it does not promote meritocracy but, on the contrary, introduces quotas, a measure which has proved counterproductive over time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the this report provides an overview of gender mainstreaming, an internationally accepted strategy for achieving gender equality. since 1996, the union has been committed to a dual approach, which aims not only to incorporate the strategy in theory but also to take concrete measures to prevent and eliminate inequalities. however, it is regrettable that not all the objectives have been achieved and that administrative obstacles continue to exist in this context. as can be seen from questionnaires addressed to members of the bodies responsible for gender mainstreaming in parliament, there is a clear lack of coordination of their activities. the commission is proposing measures to ensure that there is regular cooperation between the european institutions and the relevant committees, as well as with national parliaments, in order to ensure the stability of this strategy. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the integration of the gender dimension in the work of the european parliament because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the report introduces substantial gender discrimination, does not promote meritocracy but instead introduces quotas, a measure which has proven counterproductive over time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the this report by the european parliament refers to the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. during 2015, about 1 million people crossed the mediterranean, of which 35% were women and children. in january 2016, women made up 55%. the report, which i voted in favour of, highlights the extremely precarious situation of women refugees and asylum seekers and calls for political processes to be speeded up to take greater account of the risks faced by women (human trafficking, sexual violence, female genital mutilation, etc.) and their needs (access to medical services, antenatal and postnatal care, provision of a guard during interviews, etc.). the socialist and democratic group calls in the report for measures to be taken to ensure that gender issues are taken into account in the asylum procedure.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the european union, in an attempt to highlight not only the growing problems caused by the dramatic increase in the number of refugees, but also the inequalities faced by many women in this situation. in this context, i think it is clear that we need to support and promote the rights of these women and girls who are forced to suffer a lot from their position of weakness. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - we vote against. the report is vague, it does not propose any substantive measure, it discriminates in favour of women, as if underage boys were not in need of protection. furthermore, it makes no distinction between so-called refugees and illegal immigrants, while at the same time it is indifferent to the christian populations of the region, who are perhaps the biggest and the first victims of attacks.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. the report is vague, it does not propose any substantive measure, it discriminates in favour of women, as if underage boys were not in need of protection. furthermore, it makes no distinction between so-called refugees and illegal immigrants, while at the same time it is indifferent to the christian populations of the region, who are perhaps the biggest and the first victims of attacks.
in writing. ‒ the this report aims to highlight the extremely vulnerable position of refugee and asylum seeker girls and women, given the various forms of gender-based persecution that a large number of them face in their countries of origin and their already fraught situation in their attempt to reach europe. the aim is to avoid secondary victimisation of these people during the asylum process, even in countries considered safe. it is therefore imperative to ensure a gender-sensitive asylum policy that looks forward to the material and psychological support of these people. in particular, it is proposed to differentiate between men and women at the asylum application and distribution stages in reception centres, to provide staff with mandatory training on sexual and psychological violence and to promote them on the labour market. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's report on 'women refugees' legitimises and promotes the eu's reactionary regulations at a time when thousands of refugees, the majority of whom are women and children, are facing repression and the barbaric policy of the eu and its member states that puts their lives at risk. in particular, it pays a premium for the detention of refugees, effectively annulling the geneva convention on refugees and asylum seekers. the empty expressions of sympathy for women refugees do not hide the fact that the report supports the whole of the eu's anti-migration policy, calling for: full use of dublin to trap refugees in host countries, increased cooperation of the member states with europol, eurojust, frontex, the asylum service, in the name of fighting the slave traders, which foreshadows intensification of repression, acceptance of the "common list of safe host countries" for mass deportations in the heat of war. the report's wishes are not met with their urgent requests for: direct transfer to the countries of final destination, abolition of detention centres, open decent reception and temporary accommodation facilities with adequate medical care infrastructure, prompt and fair asylum, issuance of travel documents, abolition of dublin, schengen and frontex.
in writing. ‒ the report is vague, does not propose any substantive measure, discriminates in favour of women, as if underage boys do not need protection. furthermore, it makes no distinction between so-called refugees and illegal immigrants, while at the same time it is indifferent to the christian populations of the region, who are perhaps the biggest and the first victims of attacks.
in writing. ‒ the women refugees are a particularly vulnerable group of displaced people, requiring special care and treatment at all levels. the report on the situation of refugee women/girls seeking asylum in the eu is moving in the right direction. but it has once again become a field for the introduction of ideological positions from the left and socialists, which concern the general question of managing the refugee crisis, without having any added value in analysing the problems of refugee women and in providing them with specialised protection. for this reason, far from populist interventions and amendments, i supported the alternative proposal of the european people's party, which focuses purely on the problems faced by women refugees in particular as a consequence of their forced displacement, such as violence, exploitation and gender-based persecution, including trafficking for sexual and labour exploitation. the recognition of the rights of women at all levels, and especially of refugee women, who are vulnerable, perhaps with children in their arms, and are at risk of becoming victims of all kinds of violent behaviour, is a priority for our political group. the political pressure exerted by the european parliament in this direction must be serious, responsible and must find a way to avoid serving petty political ends.
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's report on 'women refugees' legitimises and promotes the eu's reactionary regulations at a time when thousands of refugees, the majority of whom are women and children, are facing repression and the barbaric policy of the eu and its member states that puts their lives at risk. in particular, it pays a premium for the detention of refugees, effectively annulling the geneva convention on refugees and asylum seekers. the empty expressions of sympathy for women refugees do not hide the fact that the report supports the whole of the eu's anti-migration policy, calling for: full use of dublin to trap refugees in host countries, increased cooperation of the member states with europol, eurojust, frontex, the asylum service, in the name of fighting the slave traders, which foreshadows intensification of repression, acceptance of the "common list of safe host countries" for mass deportations in the heat of war. the report's wishes are not met with their urgent requests for: direct transfer to the countries of final destination, abolition of detention centres, open decent reception and temporary accommodation facilities with adequate medical care infrastructure, prompt and fair asylum, issuance of travel documents, abolition of dublin, schengen and frontex.
mr president, with regard to syria, i should first like to point out that there have been forces in the west, and of course turkey and saudi arabia, which have supported daesh, that is to say, sunni extremist islam, in order to strike at the shiites and, above all, assad, and that is why daesh has been strengthened. we must take this seriously. the situation in syria is of course critical. daesh has to be defeated. there must be peace. and without peace, mrs mogherini, of course thousands of refugees will continue to come to greece. we have 40,000 right now. if this situation continues, 150,000 refugees will be trapped by the end of the month. that 's where the question comes in: skopje and albania have closed the border. mr ban ki-moon said that this was an illegal action, that it was in breach of international law. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. you must take action to open the border. it's illegal what's going on. we cannot have thousands of refugees trapped in greece. greece cannot be turned into a refugee camp.
mr president, the ceasefire in syria is the first encouraging message since the war in that country began that there is a hope for normalizing the situation in that troubled region. already according to reports there has been a 90% reduction in civilian casualties and an 80% reduction in combat casualties. the problem is the reluctance of the syrian opposition to participate in the peace talks in geneva. as for the european union, despite being actively involved in both humanitarian aid and the ceasefire, it has nevertheless lost a significant opportunity to become a major and important player on the global chessboard, because let's face it, if russia had not intervened militarily, syria would have been taken over by isis forces and turned into another islamic country that would be hostile to the west and dangerous to its interests in the sensitive middle east region.
madam president, both the so-called schengen road map and the joint declaration of yesterday's meeting reward the trapping of thousands of desperate refugees and migrants in greece by taking it for granted. they confirm that the closed borders and checks, the deportations by sorting, are not a policy of austria or the visegrad countries alone but a uniform policy of the european union to close the loophole, with the signature of the greek government. the european union is not only not recognising afghans as refugees, who are also victims of imperialist wars, but is now also sending syrians as economic migrants to be deported to turkey, in contravention of the geneva convention. as for dublin, it is coming back reinforced with new restrictions on asylum, like those germany has just passed and which are being used by other states to encourage the fascist hordes; the european union has already made a great deal of progress in the fight against terrorism, and we are convinced that the european union must continue to make a great effort to combat terrorism. solidarity with refugees means transporting them directly to their final destination countries, means temporary places of human dignity; solidarity means intensifying the struggle against the repressive policy of the european union and its governments and member states, against imperialist war and its mother, the capitalist system. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
madam president, yesterday's summit once again showed that there are some member states in the european union who do not want to share the common responsibilities and do not show solidarity towards the member states facing a major pan-european problem such as the refugee and migration problem. we must realize that unilateral actions and selfish national policies not only do not work but in the long run will have disastrous results for everyone. i am pleased, however, to note the commitment of the meeting to return to turkey those who have entered greek territory arbitrarily and to distribute an equal number of syrian refugees to all the member states. i also welcome the promise of immediate financial and organisational assistance to greece to meet the needs of the trapped refugees and to implement the programme for their relocation from greece to the other member states. but words must be acted upon immediately.
madam president, if you want to understand the fallout of the united europe and its leaders, you need only read the conclusions of yesterday's summit. the united europe of principles and values in its tough negotiations with turkey, the state that violates european borders, occupies european territory with its army, violates fundamental rights and freedoms, bombs kurdish citizens inside and outside its borders and its president blackmails thousands of refugees with despair, has achieved visa exemption, the opening of accession funds, the disbursement of three billion and additional funding and... the top, which is a shame even to write: the exchange of one refugee for one! at the same time, it has already succeeded in closing borders at will, turning greece into a camp for the unfortunate and monetizing the pollution of its peace with per capita amounts for each refugee, effectively abolishing asylum and violating international treaties. and the german, austrian and greek leaders are proud of it. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the developments will be rapid and tragic.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but if for the remaining 10 days, some 2,500 refugees and migrants continue to arrive daily on the greek islands, how will this already huge european 'tuning' problem be dealt with with with an additional 25,000, 30,000 people? the european union has the obligation and duty to take serious decisions on member states which do not implement its decisions to resettle refugees on their territories, to implement, in cooperation with turkey, the resettlement of refugees from turkish territories directly in proportion to the countries of the european union, to harden its stance towards countries which arbitrarily close their borders and to oblige turkey to accept irregular migrants hosted in greece, finally respecting its old and recent readmission signatures. if, ladies and gentlemen, the solidarity which is owed to the countries of the european union is finally broken in practice and if turkey, as a strategic partner, continues to provoke us with new demands, exploiting thousands of desperate people, the europe of values and humanism will have finally failed.
madam president, mr vice-president, what you have said to us and the conclusions of yesterday's summit show that the european union's refugee policy is a bargain with turkey. turkey is exploiting the refugee crisis to elevate its role, violating international law, questioning national sovereign rights. from what was decided yesterday, i'm isolating the "one sends, one receives" deal, as if we were trading commodities, which is the most vulgar and perverse thing the human mind has ever conceived. on the other hand, mr vice-president, you are currently negotiating with greece to relax the debate on commitments or even debt relief, in order to turn the country into a huge hot spot. you destroyed the country with three memoranda and now you're trying to end it with the refugee crisis. okay, there will be humanitarian aid. these agreements are a crime against the refugees, especially those in greece today, and against the country. unfortunately, these agreements are also signed by the current tsipras government.
madam president, in this parliament we have always sought legal and safe ways of bringing refugees into europe. at the moment, in yesterday's announcement, we see a break in this path, which is the mechanism of resettlement from turkey directly to europe. if this is combined with the relocation of refugees in greece to european countries and the full return of economic migrants to turkey and from there to their countries, we can say that we are approaching a solution to the problem. but what is the cost of that? the cost, unfortunately, is the discount we make to our values, the discount to our principles, especially those relating to human rights. this is the price we pay for not moving forward with european integration, not moving forward with political integration alongside economic integration. this is the cost we are being made to pay by the commission, which mr juncker has told us is a commission of last resort. we ask the commissioners to do their duty.
i would like to ask mr timmermans, madam president: do you really think that the european union wants to solve the refugee problem? you have said before and accused greece of not being able to protect its borders. i would ask mr avramopoulos, who is sitting next to you and who was formerly the country's defence minister, to tell you whether the greek armed forces did not really have this capability or whether the greek government never gave them this mission, obeying orders from outside, just to get us to this unacceptable point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why do you insist that greece should implement the failed dublin treaty, in order to turn this beautiful country and its impoverished people into a vast and unacceptable and miserable concentration camp for unhappy souls? and finally, why this obsession with turkey, which constantly blackmails us, threatens us and demands more and more benefits? in my opinion, to entrust the protection of europe's borders to turkey is like having a rapist sleep with a naked woman to help him get rid of his problem. i am not sure whether this experiment can be successful medically, but certainly not politically.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, we are discussing today the agreement between the european commission, the european council and the european parliament on the improvement of internal legislative procedures with a view to making the institutions work more efficiently, implementing the union's policies better and saving time and money. after long negotiations we have at last a proposal with some positive elements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the trade union bodies which express the needs of the workers seem to be marginalized. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests in the event of a serious infringement of the treaty on european union is a welcome step towards the creation of a european union which is not only a european union but also a european union of the people. as europe is experiencing intense reflection on its future, we should have changed our aims and our perceptions and focused on the problems of the many, not the interests of the few. this can be achieved by genuinely democratic and transparent procedures and not by agreements that restrict the voice of citizens and the institutions that directly represent them. facilitating active citizen participation must be a priority for the european union in order to strengthen democracy and weaken bureaucracy.
mr president, the new interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking is a blank slate. a first-year law student would talk about a legal loophole. the grammatical, historical, technological and systematic interpretation of eu law is often in direct conflict with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity and legal certainty. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will continue to do so. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. legal science is not a positive science because its findings cannot be verified by experiment. the institutions have unfortunately made the citizens of the union the experimental animals of wrong economic policies and, above all, wrong legislation.
mr president, i have often criticised the commission for its bureaucracy, for the conflict of interest it presents as a member of the troika and as guardian of the treaties, but i want to say something and address the house: has the bureau seen the new bureaucracy brought about by the new way of recruiting local associates of members? have you really dealt with what a bureaucratic monster you've created? if someone wants to hire someone by teleworking, who does not live in athens, let us say, and lives in thessaloniki, he cannot hire him on an indefinite contract, because he has to come to settle in athens, and he tells you to hire him on a free service contract. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a lot of paperwork. a document that had five pages, you made it fifty pages! the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter.
the directive really does help to ensure that there is no social dumping against workers, that we can have worker mobility, and that is very important. but there is a bilingualism, and the bilingualism is this: the agreement reached by the heads of state or government to settle the british question now contains provisions which will discriminate on grounds of nationality against new workers entering the british labour market, with the result that they will no longer have rights arising from employment relations. they won't have housing benefit. they won't get tax breaks. they're not getting any more benefits. does this have anything to do with the european union? what are we talking about? the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant a derogation to workers who are not nationals of a member state. this is at the expense of 400,000 greek scientists. the same is true of others. so how do we talk about worker mobility here? i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but we should be able to do it.
madam president, triple a is how the ratings agencies rate profitable banks, savings, investments. the european commission is mocking and provoking the socalled social triple a, i.e. social criteria in the slaughterhouse of workers' rights, called the european semester, but it also admits that cheap, flexible work is the best investment for capital. the european union is not humanized by wishlists or by a so-called democratic accountability to reactionary institutions such as the european parliament. for example, here are some of the commission's answers to questions from the communist party of greece: 'the european union,' he says, 'does not define the right to permanent employment contracts.' i mean, rubber-stamp work for crumbs! other: in the european social fund programmes, workers do not receive a salary, nor do they receive any insurance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european social fund is not used as a means of financing the community's social policy. for example, greece, where the government and the quartet, in the assessment of the third memorandum, misleadingly claim that the european union is more liberal than the international monetary fund and that it is concerned about the weakest, are dividing poverty among the poor and the destitute, are cutting wages, pensions, social benefits and expenditure, and are burying social security and labour rights. no question about it. here, representatives of the union and all governments are shamelessly calling for the cheap labour of refugees to be exploited if they can escape the bombings, drownings, hot spots, deportation and imprisonment in greece. the only way for the people is to get rid of this politics and the power of capital.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we have armies of unemployed in europe. we have poverty in europe. we have 9% unemployment. we have a lot of youth unemployment. we have 25% unemployment in greece. if we really want to have a proper social policy, we need at least three things: a european social minimum income, a european minimum wage, a european unemployment benefit. instead of having that, we have a different direction. as i said earlier, the latest agreement on the uk's remaining in the eu is essentially dismantling all social policy in europe, because there will not only be discrimination against europeans working in the uk but also against britons working in the eu, because mrs merkel said she likes this system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i am known for always supporting, even in my role as minister of justice, the unification of fundamental procedural rights in the event of a european arrest warrant. i also support the idea of unifying the procedural rights of minors in this proposal, but i also wonder whether the scope of these unified rights is too broad. the commissioner may have noted the debate in the czech republic, which we are now having at both professional and parliamentary level, and that debate concerns the way in which the right to privacy of the child should be regulated. and that's when a child commits a particularly serious crime. in short, the czech public does not want children who, for example, murder someone or intentionally harm someone physically, to be anonymous, so that the public cannot learn that someone has committed such a brutal crime. so the idea is right, i just feel like the scope of the unified rights is too broad.
madam president, 1 086 000 children face justice every year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are protected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. we have to shape the concept of fair trial for children. the rights of the child, as defined in the un convention, must be respected. this means, among other things, training of judges and lawyers themselves. it is therefore the duty of each member state to ensure that minors themselves are provided with legal aid by a lawyer. the aim must be reintegration into society, it must be protection, not marginalization. we don't want a modern-day oliver twist and his gang, as described by charles dickens in london in 1838. so we must take serious action.
madam president, we are currently facing major challenges for the union's 2017 budget. we have the refugee. we have unemployment. we have poverty, and we need to support investment to grow. in the refugee camp, mrs. georgieva, we are in a critical situation. at the moment there are 40,000 refugees trapped in greece. at the rate things are going, by the end of the month there will be 150,000 refugees trapped. skopje and albania have illegally closed the border. these refugees must be supported. greece is an impoverished country. so far it has spent two and a half billion euros for 2015 alone. you realize that funds are urgently needed to deal with the refugee problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the commission must also take decisions.
the commission the european union is not prepared to accept the refugees, but to accept the refugees, and to accept the refugees as refugees. the postponement of measures on refugees and their referral to the european union summit on 17 and 18 march means that refugee flows will continue unabated in greece, with the result that by the end of march there will be 150,000 refugees trapped. the european union must put its hand in its pocket and give greece funds for refugees now. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and i am sure that the european union will do so. it will not tolerate turkey's eastern bargaining aimed at increasing the dowry it is asking for in order to stop the slave trade rings that are filling the aegean islands with refugees and illegal immigrants. greece is not going to tolerate the lawlessness of the skopjeans and albanians who have closed the borders. it is time for greece to withdraw from schengen, suspend dublin iii and impose an economic embargo on skopje and albania in retaliation for the closed borders. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment. i was very much in favour of mr cameron's position yesterday and explained that the decision on britain, which was voted by all the leaders, is in fact creating a situation where decisions are now being imposed against all workers on the basis of their nationality. so europeans working in britain will have no rights and britons working in germany will have limited rights.
the commission mr president, the day before yesterday, the european union-turkey summit took place. the results of this were not only disappointing but a diplomatic waterloo for the union's leaders. twenty-eight dwarf-sized turkmen leaders sat and listened to a vicious blackmailer, a common swindler, davutoglu, laying down terms of surrender and submission. i would mention four of the unacceptable conditions he set: additional funding of eur 3 billion, more favourable visa arrangements, first evacuation of the greek islands of refugees and then the return of illegal immigrants, immediate relaunch of five chapters of the accession process. gentlemen, as ottoman scholars have written: the turk is a spiritual barbarian, a blasphemer, a savage and a filthy man. the turk is like the dog; he's a wild man, but when he has to face his opponent, he runs. the only meaningful way to deal with the turk is with vigour and determination. but such gifts are lacking in the elected and non-political masters of europe. you have sold out to the ottoman erdogan.
ni), replying to a question with a blue card to angel dzhambazki. i agree with what you said, mr president, and i think that europe can very well protect its borders against turkey. it is simply a game and a bargaining chip between turkey and the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i would like to ask you a question, mrs de sarnez. greece has no land border with any schengen country. do you agree with the idea that greece should leave schengen, so that these people have no incentive to come to greece to get papers and travel to europe?
the commission the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in detention, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. you're turning white into black. the persecuted refugees from the fire of the imperialist war that you, the european union, nato and your competitors have ignited are considered illegal immigrants. the question of who is a refugee is being arbitrarily judged in the cynical eu-turkey debate with the fervent support of the greek government. the european union is not a military force, but a military force. the turkish bourgeoisie, which systematically questions borders and sovereign rights, which is intensifying its aggression in syria, enjoys the benefits of eurasian backbones, bargains, subsidies and trade agreements. the conclusion is clear: the european union and nato are being fully exposed as opponents of the people and associations of interests of the monopolies. that's why the people's struggle must target them and their exploitative system.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, you are placing excessive expectations in the oriental bargain with the anti-democratic erdogan regime because you, the 28 governments, are proving incapable of implementing your own decisions, the decisions you took in september on a european solution to the refugee problem, in accordance with what the commission proposed and agreed and the european parliament pushed for. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we must all realize that there is no european solution to the refugee problem without greece, much less against greece. the european balkan corridor must be opened to refugees now, and not in the future, as you have said. the visegrad countries which violate the joint european decisions must be sanctioned in accordance with article 7 of the european treaty. greece is an integral member of the schengen treaty and guards europe's borders, so it needs more european solidarity and not punishment. we greeks are tired of hearing words and friendly back slaps. we want solidarity and action in action, ladies and gentlemen.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. thank you, mrs. gardini, for accepting my question. i wanted to ask you: if the greeks, who are affected by these unacceptable concessions made yesterday by the european union, react forcefully, what do you think will be the european union's attitude? i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. do you think there's anything that can be done on this?
the commission the european union is not only a european problem, it is also an international problem and it needs a european solution, of course, but also an international solution based on the decisions of the united nations. we have understood the crisis in terms of time deprivation. he caught us off guard. that is why we need more europe, a better europe, deepening our democratic institutions, political and economic integration. the agreement with turkey is important. but we don't write a blank check. the agreement with turkey cannot be the subject of an eastern bargain. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to prevent it from spreading. we must provide the solution. many colleagues have referred to the european frontiers. the law of the sea is not mentioned in the conclusions, and the law of the sea is the one that all the countries of the european union have ratified, and since 1982, of the decisions of the united nations, only turkey has not ratified the law of the sea. we also need to return to the schengen rules. what about the visegrad countries? they do not follow the european acquis. they refuse to apply international law. the european union needs to be strengthened and urgently, a very positive decision of political solidarity in the countries of the european union, especially the southern countries and greece. but the situation in the idomenian is not a credit to the european union in the western balkans either. the european council of 17 and 18 march is expected to take decisions. the devil is in the details, as mrs merkel and mr juncker have rightly said.
s & d) and the the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on asylum. it is clear that a satisfactory solution must include a cooperative turkey. but unlike greece, which is keeping its commitments, turkey has not implemented the existing agreement and is constantly making new demands in an oriental bargaining process, only this bargaining is about souls and human rights. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is able to fulfil its obligations under the treaty of rome. it must first of all assume its own responsibilities towards refugees and disproportionately affected areas such as the greek islands. the european union must also insist that turkey's cooperation in the refugee field is a necessary condition for accession and not, by god, the key that will open the door wide for it. i want to remind you today of jean-paul sartre's words: if we can't use our eyes to see, then we'll need them to cry.
s & d) and the the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. if they do not remember how the common european vision was created and are only interested in the structural funds, they should forget about them as well, as long as they do not implement the joint decisions on relocation. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find a way to live in peace and security. it violates international law and provokes, when it conceals mr erdogan's real role both in the instability of syria and in the violation of the rule of law and human rights in turkey itself. as long as this tragic project continues, the first victim will be the refugees and the second the moral, legal and political culture of europe. as a greek, the only consolation i can take is that a people living in a difficult economic situation, with very high unemployment rates, is overwhelmingly proving that solidarity is not a cheap trick and is not only useful when you accept it but above all it is redemptive when you offer it.
gue/ngl), in writing. the position of vice-president dombrovskis on behalf of the european commission in the debate on the 'european semester', that is, essentially on the commission's monitoring of budgetary developments in the member states, is characterized by glaring contradictions. the commission affirms that the euro is a political project requiring political governance and democratic accountability and notes that we will all be judged by our ability to improve the prospects of our peoples. in reality, however, the commission itself is a mixed institution, both political and technocratic, and the european parliament's control over it is suffocatingly limited by the rules in force. the democratic legitimacy of the economic and budgetary policy pursued is similarly limited, all the more so when non-european organizations, such as the international monetary fund, are involved in its design, lacking any such legitimacy and unavailable to accountability. the commission also acknowledges that high public debts are hampering growth and exposing member states' economies to the risk of crises, but it does not present any plan for drastically reducing debt levels. europe needs new, non-conventional mechanisms for restructuring public debt to achieve a substantial reduction in it and less involvement of non-democratic and non-european mechanisms in its own.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the recent eu-turkey summit again sought, without substantial results, an agreement with turkey to minimise refugee flows to the eu. however, turkey is constantly making demands that are unreasonable and absurd, such as doubling the financial aid, lifting visas for turkish citizens travelling to the eu and continuing the accession negotiations by opening more funds, threatening europe with uncontrolled waves of migrants and refugees. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the agreement to include the eu's relations with turkey, which is currently in the process of being negotiated. it is unacceptable to involve issues such as the continuation of accession negotiations which are not related to the management of the refugee problem. in particular, as regards any additional funding for turkey, the eu should exercise strict control over how european aid to turkey has been spent so far. it is not possible for a europe of values and democracy to accept provocative exchanges without first proving that turkey is a reliable partner in practice, fully respecting the readmission agreements it has signed and its commitment to control the traffickers' circuits that operate unhindered on the turkish coast.
s&d), in writing. ‒ this proposal is a simple codification of existing texts without any change in substance and i am voting in favour of its adoption.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the vote on the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels concerns the codification of existing text without amending its content. as part of a wider effort to speed up procedures, i believe that it should have been welcomed by all members and i therefore voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, because it is purely a matter of safety but above all a matter of health and protection of the already contaminated environment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels, because it is purely a matter of safety but above all a matter of health and protection of the already polluted environment.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a proposal to reduce the emissions of sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. we have to reduce the harmful effects of such emissions on man and on the environment through the reduction of sulphur. i voted in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels (codified text), because it is not complete.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs laura ferrara on behalf of the committee on legal affairs. the draft submitted takes account of the relevant opinions of the competent legal services of the parliament, the council and the commission.
s&d), in writing. ‒ this proposal is a simple codification of existing texts, without any change in substance, and i am voting in favour of its adoption.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, because it is urgent. proper pricing of medicines helps the lower classes of the population to have access to them. the pharmaceutical multinationals have been known for many years to sell medicines at low prices and to import them via third routes into europe at high prices.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to prevent the diversion of trade in certain essential medicinal products to the european union, because the need for correct pricing of medicines is imperative and it helps the lowest strata of the population to have access to them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it deals with the procedural aspects of the codification of the regulation 953/2003 of the 26 may 2003 to avoid trade diversion into the european union of certain key medicines. the proposal contains straightforward codification without any change in the substance of the existing regulation.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to prevent the diversion of trade in certain essential medicinal products to the european union (consolidated text), because it is not complete and well documented.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report as parliament's position at first reading, as put to the vote by the rapporteur.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european union hereby signs an agreement with the principality of andorra on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, starting in 2017, with a view to improving international cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation and to preventing tax fraud and tax evasion. in particular, i voted in favour of this report, because it is an agreement which stresses the need for transparency in the taxation of the union and in its relations with third countries.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the draft resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra providing for measures to tax savings income in the form of interest is part of the smooth cooperation procedure between the two parties. as europe has experienced very negatively in recent years the effects of the lack of specific structures and regulations in the field of combating tax evasion, i believe that such efforts contribute to the streamlining of procedures and therefore i have decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ states should conclude transnational agreements to enable them to investigate and bring to justice economic crimes quickly, reliably and always in accordance with the law. the european union must help the states in this endeavour in such a way that their sovereign rights are not infringed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ states should conclude transnational agreements to be able to investigate and bring to justice economic crimes quickly, reliably and always in accordance with the law. the european union must help the states in this endeavour in such a way that their sovereign rights are not infringed. i therefore support the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the i welcome the union's continued efforts to crack down on tax evasion and tax fraud and the procedures for cooperation and compliance of the member states. in this context, the agreement of 12 february with andorra on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts is an important step in this direction. the new agreement will benefit both andorra, which has recently reformed its domestic tax system, and the tax authorities of the member states, which, in cooperation with the andorran counterparts, will be able to exchange information on the correct identification of accounts held in their territory by the holders of the other party. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, because it is not comprehensive and, moreover, does not effectively combat tax evasion and tax avoidance, since it is based on oecd standards, which, as is known, allow for the existence of 'grey areas', thereby facilitating tax evasion and tax avoidance not only by individuals but also by multinational enterprises through known trilateral relationships.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ this report, which i voted in favour of, strengthens international tax cooperation, strengthens tax mechanisms and revenue controls and in general constitutes an additional mechanism to combat tax evasion. the agreement will enter into force on 1 january 2017, as agreed between the eu and andorra.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report refers to the proposal for the appointment of a new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). in particular, in the report, taking into account that the term of office of the current executive director expires on 31 march 2016 and that the board of supervisors of eiopa proposed the appointment of mr fausto parente, who subsequently answered questions from members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs in the context of a hearing held by it, his appointment is approved. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and we await the outcome of the consultations with the commission, the council and the national governments.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the appointment of an executive director for the european insurance and pensions authority is a mere procedural matter which, in reality, has no significance. the authority has not issued a report condemning the bloody pension cuts and the establishment of insurance funds in greece by the stock exchange and psi scandals.
in writing. ‒ the appointment of an executive director for the european insurance and pensions authority is a mere procedural matter which, in reality, has no relevance. an insurance and pensions supervisory authority that has not issued a report condemning the bloody pension cuts and the establishment of insurance funds in greece by the stock exchange and psi scandals.
in writing. ‒ the board of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, eiopa has to appoint an executive director. i voted abstention on the candidate nominated by the econ committee since the candidate comes from a mainstream political group.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for the appointment of the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, as i do not agree with the main points of the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported the recommendation by mr gualtieri, which is supported by the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the appointment of the executive director of eiopa is hereby approved.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this legislative report is a proposed agreement at first reading on the directive on procedural safeguards for children suspected or accused of criminal offences, based on a commission proposal from november 2013. the directive is part of a legislative package on the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings. it was intended to treat children as a special category of vulnerable people. i voted in favour of the report because it contains strong minimum standards at eu level and will contribute to the protection of children in criminal proceedings throughout the union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is necessary to ensure full respect for the fundamental rights and procedural rights of suspects and accused persons, in particular on the basis of the presumption of innocence, with particular regard to children, so that they are treated in all proceedings with care, sensitivity and respect for their age, special needs, level of maturity and capacity to understand, and to take into account any communication difficulties they may have. finally, children involved in criminal proceedings should be provided with appropriate support and assistance in their efforts to reintegrate into society, in particular by taking measures to prevent discrimination against them in access to education and the labour market, and to protect them from marginalisation. the only asterisk is for the recognition of the age of majority, which in any case must be 18. the reference to the age of 21 as a result of the extension of the transition period to adulthood should be considered at national level with reference to the encouragement of the application of the guarantees of this (see romanius).
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is necessary to ensure full respect for the fundamental rights and procedural rights of suspects and accused persons, in particular on the basis of the presumption of innocence, with particular regard to children, so that they are treated in all proceedings with care, sensitivity and respect for their age, special needs, level of maturity and capacity to understand, and to take into account any communication difficulties they may have. finally, children involved in criminal proceedings should be provided with appropriate support and assistance in their efforts to reintegrate into society, in particular by taking measures to prevent discrimination against them in access to education and the labour market, and to protect them from marginalisation. i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ the directive aims to establish procedural safeguards to ensure that children who are accused in criminal proceedings are able to follow the proceedings. it is essential to enable the children to exercise their right to a fair trial and also foster their social integration. i voted in favour of this directive to ensure the establishment of special safeguards for children.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 march 2016 and because the report is not complete.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ this report was adopted by a large majority in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. of course, i approved it by giving my affirmative vote.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the report on the guidelines setting out the european parliament's key political priorities for the eu budget in 2010 provides a comprehensive overview of the current budgetary situation. key issues covered include: refugees and the migration crisis, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), economic development, the employment initiative, the new child (poverty) guarantees, climate change, the payments crisis, eu aid funds and the refugee facility for turkey. i voted in favour of the report, in which the european parliament is prepared to mobilise all the means at its disposal to deal with the crisis (refugees and migration, the economic crisis, poverty, etc.).
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget comes at a particularly turbulent time, given the intense social and political ferment that makes it difficult to forecast needs for the next period. however, it is an important process which directly affects the course of the union. as i consider that there are areas in which this proposal does not protect the interests of the citizens of the union and the member states, i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because, in the midst of the worst economic crisis in decades, the union insists on allocating funds for the economic and social support of illegal immigrants, instead of supporting european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget, section iii, because in the midst of the worst economic crisis in decades, the union insists on allocating funds for the economic and social support of illegal immigrants instead of supporting european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this is the annual report of the european parliament, concerning the budget of the year to come. the budget of 2017 reflects some objectives to attend to. it is still a preliminary stage of the budget procedure. i voted abstention to this report, since i think we need more progressive and solidarity instruments in the eu budget, more transparency and shared decision-making on the eu budget.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget, section iii commission, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 march 2016 and because the report is complete and well-founded.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to the committee on budgets on the preparation of next year's draft budget. the resolution takes account of both the economic forecasts and the european semester of economic policy coordination.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report allows for better implementation of european union legislation, respecting agreements with the social partners, while ensuring greater transparency. in particular, parliament has a greater say in annual and multiannual programming, there is a commitment to greater transparency in the council's legislative procedures, agreements between the social partners are protected and will not be subject to impact assessments. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. the process is theoretically about trying to improve, streamline and even speed up the union's legislative procedures, which has been an objective for several years. in fact, i fear that under the guise of 'better regulation' there may be, in some cases at least, the neoliberal proposal for deregulation. that is why i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because the negotiations did not respect the established practice of the european parliament's committee procedure. it also grants the commission certain powers.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission, because the negotiations did not respect the established practice in relation to the procedure in committee of the european parliament. it also grants the commission certain powers.
in writing. ‒ the effort to cope with ‘burdensome’ regulation is accentuated within the context of the juncker commission agenda. it is well known that administrative burdens have a negative effect on citizens and businesses, in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises. under this scope, the present report deals with the proposed interinstitutionnal agreement between the commission, parliament and the council, in which they recognise their joint responsibility in providing high-quality union legislation and present their commitment in order to pursue mutual consultations and exchanges of views. however, my major concern is related to the overemphasis of the agreement on tackling the ‘overregulation’. the risk is to disorientate the notion of quality regulation towards complete deregulation. in order to express this concern, i decided to abstain.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 march 2016 and because the report is not complete.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the aim of the european union institutions is to establish a modern and citizen-friendly framework of rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. this report strengthens cooperation between the european institutions and improves the common legislative procedure. i voted in favour, following the example of my colleagues on the committee on constitutional affairs.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: - we are overwhelmed. the resolution is in line with reality, it seeks to break the union's suspicious links with the tobacco industry and at the same time it is concerned with the fight against smuggling and the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ despite the measures taken by the eu, member states and the industry there is still incidence of contraband and counterfeit cigarettes. they create a parallel illegal supply. i voted in favour of this report so as to stop this illegal supply. the fight against counterfeit and contraband cigarettes must be a priority for member states.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the tobacco agreement (pmi agreement) because it is well documented.
the commission the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the problems are many and, instead of trying to find solutions, the continuous postponements and delays are accumulating more and more. in the southern countries in particular, unemployment, youth unemployment, wage and pension cuts, the collapse of the health system are very important issues. the agenda is dominated by immigration and the economy, and we have focused on these, ignoring other equally important issues that we could provide solutions to. ideological entrenchments and deliberations of political groups that have learned not to listen to different voices and opinions undermine both the sense of democracy and the right of self-determination of other political views. in a democracy, there are no measures and no red lines. we are not weighing more or less democracy. ideologies in europe are not supposed to be persecuted, nor are different opinions. the history of some countries is written and not embellished, as some would like, so we must not forget the past in order to move forward. as the european union, we are either changing or sinking.
the commission mr president, according to the un human rights council, eritrea is experiencing systematic and serious human rights violations. eritrea has not held democratic elections since 1993. since 2001, the country has been ruled by a dictatorship, while 5% of the population has left the country due to political and economic difficulties. in addition, restrictions on freedom of speech and press and on freedom of religion are observed in eritrea, and torture and executions are frequent during military service. in the face of the violation of rights taking place in eritrea, the european union should contribute to the promotion of a democratic model of governance. at the same time, each member state of the union must condemn the violation of human rights and the link between government enterprises and corruption. finally, the european union should review its investment policy in the country and contribute to combating inequalities and poverty in the region.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr vajgl, i listened carefully to your views on fyrom. you know that right now he's building fences, he's dropping tear gas, he's amassing desperate people who are at the level of a humanitarian crisis. in your opinion, should this attitude of fyrom towards this very important european problem be taken into account in view of its accession talks with the european union?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission notes that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the accession of the republic of moldova to the union, but that the council has already taken a decision on the accession of the republic of moldova to the union. i have a question: where have you seen this ? i ask you because it is your amendment. the council of 15 december stated in paragraph 38 of its conclusions that it merely took note of the commission's position on the opening of negotiations. i am not saying that he agrees with it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i'm reading it to you in english, word for word: the european parliament calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised. "
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, and in connection with last year's report, i stressed that the policy of the commission and parliament to reward backwardness, as most of you here today have admitted, and the negative effects which make up the present situation of the country would act as a brake on its progress. the developments fully confirmed the country's systemic deficit in key areas, culminating in the postponement of the april elections. the substance and content of the political agreement of june-july is still up in the air. the political criteria of copenhagen, to which we all refer here, concerning the rule of law, the functioning of democratic institutions, freedom of expression, the independence of the judiciary and the media, can only be said, if we are blind, to be close to the european acquis. on the crucial issue of refugees, it is an insult to call fyrom a reliable partner when it violates international treaties on a daily basis with closed borders, refugee quotas and incidents of violence against refugees. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to go to the idomeni and see how your trusted partner behaves. in conclusion , i repeat: the nomenclature is not a bilateral issue between greece and fyrom as stated in the report. it is an open international issue and the only way to resolve it is to continue negotiations under the auspices of the un, as both sides have agreed. its resolution is strictly in line with good neighbourly relations, which are an essential element of the enlargement, stabilisation and association process, and affects regional peace and stability. the same short-sighted policy is being pursued with regard to turkey. as much as it serves the interests of some, the results will be tragic.
the commission mr president, the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia - the country's official name, which the report ignores - to the european union is aimed at strengthening european capital in the balkans as an energy corridor, an investment area and a geostrategic front against russian interests. the people of the country will pay with even harsher anti-working class measures the plans of the domestic bourgeoisie. remember this: the process of integration of fyrom began with war, the breakup of yugoslavia, nato and the european union's protectorate states. the european union's integration of fyrom has also led to the unacceptable closure of its borders and the balkan corridor to refugees, with brutal police repression and their confinement in greece, for which the declaration of the previous day congratulates it. this policy, which is being reproduced in the european parliament and by the so-called 'friends of macedonia' group, fosters ethno-religious divisions, irredentism and challenges to sovereign rights, literally turning the balkans into a powder keg. it is clear that the european union and the system it serves mean exploitation, poverty, competition and war.
mr. preda, your time is up. you have one minute. your time is long gone. you've gotten over it more than anyone, mr. preda, respect the president's decision, which is fair in all directions. please, have a seat. respect the president, who is fair to all directions. i gave you an extra half a minute. don't abuse my tolerance.
the commission the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody for more than two years. the european union is also calling on the council to take action to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised by the threat of a nuclear war. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the skopje also violated greece's territorial integrity a few days ago, dropping flash-bang grenades, tear gas and chemicals on greek territory in order to push back the trapped refugees, so that they do not approach the barbed wire of shame and disgrace they have erected. in addition, mr rapporteur, in your report you should use the term 'fyrom' and not 'macedonia', which you are using incorrectly, in breach of the un resolutions recognising skopje as fyrom. i would like to say, mr president, that i am once again strongly opposed to any possible accession of skopje to the european union.
the commission mr president, mr vajgl's document, although an official document, mentions the word 'macedonian' in many instances in violation of ethics, and at the same time provokes greek sensitivity on this issue. that is why this should be avoided. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. the political parties cannot agree on the holding of elections and are constantly postponing the date of the elections, but even if these elections are held no one knows whether they will be held in a democratic manner and whether their results will be accepted. there is also corruption in the country. there is no freedom of the press, there is no independence of the judiciary, the work of the special prosecutor is hindered, the role of parliament is limited and democratic rights are violated. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is to be submitted to the council in the near future. so after the theft of history, culture and the expression and formulation of expansionist aspirations against greece, we have the closure of the borders. with this troubled country you want to have accession talks? turkey is not enough for us? we want to raise another blackmailer? i wonder if there is a political mechanism at the top of the european union?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr frunzulica, i listened carefully to you talk about bilateral issues and differences in the region, but i would like to draw your attention to the following: according to the press freedom data of reporters without borders, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is ranked 117th, 90 places lower than in 2009; it's the last one in europe. there are serious distortions in legislation, in media expression, in state interference through advertising. i would like to ask you: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission mr president, the problem for the european union and skopje negotiations is not the name; it is the lack of democracy in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the copenhagen criteria are to be respected, and the copenhagen criteria include respect for good neighbourly relations between states. the european commission's report has highlighted the backwardness in the areas of justice, transparency, the functioning of the media and democratic politics. the use of the adjective 'macedonian' in the report gives the impression that the european parliament is taking a position in favour of skopje. the name issue is not a bilateral issue; it is an international issue and as an international issue it must be resolved within the framework of the united nations organization.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the european commission's report on the progress of skopje's accession process in 2015 is revealing. ten years after the accession of greece, no progress has been made on the name and the renouncement of the territorial claims against greece which the name conceals. on the contrary, good neighbourly relations are being weakened by the falsification and the usurpation of greek history and cultural heritage and by the erection of bizarre monuments in the city of skopje. in addition, there is a backsliding in critical areas such as the consolidation of democracy and respect for human rights, with the gruevski regime moving in an increasingly authoritarian direction. the european union cannot make concessions on any of these issues and therefore the conditions for opening accession negotiations are not met.
the commission the question is what we are asking of the applicant countries: compliance with the european acquis, with the copenhagen criteria. what is happening in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia? it has a serious shortfall in the separation of powers, in respect for human and minority rights, in respect for freedom of the press is last in europe: 90 below 2009. are we opening the road to the discounts today? and how do we respond to turkey's demands? the european union and the united states ambassadors have also reported on the reasons for postponing the elections, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia's behaviour today on the hellenic-scopian border. where refugees in need of international protection are not allowed to pass. is this in keeping with the spirit and the letter of the european decisions? the former yugoslav republic of macedonia still has a long way to go. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union.
i have received a motion for a resolution. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 10 march 2015, at 12 noon. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the 2015 report on montenegro (2015/2894 ((rsp)).
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, montenegro is the champion of the western balkans on the road to european union. significant progress has been made in recent years, as confirmed by the opening of 22 chapters and the temporary closure of 2. this report comes at a crucial moment for montenegro. the elections to be held later this year are crucial for stability and we hope that they will be held in the best possible political climate. the socialist group welcomes the efforts made by the country over the years to bring the negotiations with the european union to a successful conclusion. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area and the establishment of a european research area. the resolution therefore stresses the need for further efforts in the areas of public administration, the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime, in addition to the substantial reforms already undertaken. we still expect action to be taken to tackle tax evasion, high social inequalities, longterm unemployment and poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social cohesion. we were in no way opposed to his joining the alliance, as some in this room would like to portray. but we believe that this is a decision that each country must make on its own, without any outside interference. what we disagree with is the attempt to link these two different processes. today we are discussing the accession of montenegro to the european union. the european union and nato are two different organizations with different objectives. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the commission madam president, we are discussing the authorization of medicines for veterinary use and the public health implications of these medicines. firstly, as regards the central marketing authorization for veterinary medicinal products, it should be decoupled from that for medicinal products for human use, since the veterinary sector's needs for medicinal products are very different from those of humans. in the veterinary field, there are different animal species, which leads to market fragmentation and increases the need for investment to extend the authorisation of medicines from one animal species to another. in addition, despite the health measures taken by farmers, animals also need veterinary medicines to treat a disease and prevent any possible transmission to humans. the veterinary industry must therefore ensure that medicinal substances placed on the market are not harmful to public health, animal health and the environment and we should also pay particular attention to antibiotics administered to food-producing animals.
mr president, i listened to the whole debate with great emotion. i really want to thank the authors for bringing this dangerous drug to the table. there was a terrible fact that 900 victims still haven't been compensated. that some governments are turning their backs. the commissioner here was saying what he had done, that he was dealing with the matter, that he was meeting with the victims of this great tragedy. however, it also stated that the compensation system was not a matter for the european union. that is, of course, true, but we are a political body, representing all the citizens of the european union who voted for us in free and secret elections, and so we should be able to put real pressure on national governments to address this issue, in addition to the powers that we have. i therefore wanted to ask the commissioner not only to deal with the victims but also, through the commission, to put pressure on national governments and pharmaceutical companies to ensure that 900 victims receive compensation and that the others are at least compensated for the future and can live a life of dignity.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's where the victims came in and raised the issue. we have heard all the views and we have said that this matter must go forward, and go forward in the european parliament as we are doing now, because it is an issue that has been of particular concern to spain all these years, where the franco regime has literally hidden this issue. he didn't give me an answer. the same is true of other victims in other areas, such as belgium, germany and other countries. the question is: what are we doing ? there should certainly be compensation for the victims. the german pharmaceutical company must pay the compensation as well as the german state. he has enormous liability for not checking the particular drug product, which led to side effects. the governments of certain countries which have dealt with this issue also have responsibilities in relation to the marketing of the products of this medicinal product. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the european union must ensure that people who use their information to help uncover corruption scandals are effectively protected. according to a 2013 transparency international survey, most eu countries are unable to offer adequate legal protection from retaliation in the workplace, and concern about criminal prosecution is another deterrent for whistleblowers. as commission president juncker acknowledged in september 2015 before the european parliament, we need to adopt a common european policy on this issue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account in its future work. corruption moves in the dark. only if we motivate citizens to come out and denounce it can we effectively fight it.
mr. chairman, i consider the whistleblower debate to be one of the key anti-corruption measures. if we look at the opinion polls in the individual countries of the european union, the citizens of the european union see corruption as one of the key issues that is very burning for them. it is a bit strange that most of the countries of the european union do not have a complete regulation of the subject of the whistleblower, only some states have this thing in the field of labour law. i personally think that it would therefore be worth considering, commissioner, if you were to consider some more general regulation which would set a minimum european standard for the status of a whistleblower. you mentioned specific examples of directives where the subject of the notifier is essentially only marginally constructed. but i believe that a general rule would be worth considering if it were minimal, for example, if the person is reporting a crime, not just an ethical offence, as we have legislation today that regulates so-called anti-discrimination laws. the european union has somehow managed that, too. five years ago, i was responsible for legislation in the czech government and i drafted this law. but there was no political will to pass such a law. to this day, the czech republic has no whistleblower protection. this is an example of why i think that coming up with an idea like this from the european level, from brussels, makes sense and can help those who are not afraid to report crime.
the commission mr president, the few who dare to denounce wrongdoing do not enjoy adequate legal protection in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. the luxleaks scandal, the borgense and lagarde lists, which have not yet been fully exploited by the competent authorities, in particular in greece, have shown that individuals and multinationals systematically evade and avoid taxes. the introduction of whistleblower protection will undoubtedly bring to light other cases of infringement of tax legislation and the legislation of the european union states in general. it is therefore in the interests of european citizens to strengthen the institutional framework for the protection of these people. we must not forget, mr president, the recent persecution of journalists in luxembourg who exposed the luxleaks scandal.
the commission mr president, according to the world health organisation, the zika virus epidemic, which recently emerged in brazil and was transmitted from africa, is a public health emergency of international concern, as it is expected to spread to the americas and europe. it should therefore be noted that zika virus is an infection transmitted by mosquitoes and is associated with dengue fever and an increase in cases of microcephaly. the european union should therefore immediately consider the possibility of this virus spreading in europe and take the necessary precautions. this means that a vaccine or a cure for the virus must be found and it is necessary for the european union to increase spending on health services in all member states so that free diagnostic tests are offered to people who are symptomatic of the virus. finally, the zika virus should be a challenge for the european union to carry out diagnostic tests and research to find a vaccine to treat the epidemic.
the commission you claim that the banking union is rescuing the banks without burdening the popular strata but allegedly the shareholders and the big depositors. it's all lies. for example, red npls, a crucial aspect of banking union, are growing exponentially in europe and in greece of the three memoranda, a result of unemployment and widespread poverty. the quartet and syriza government's assessment is leading them to international hedge funds, tightening the noose further and intensifying the hunt for popular households. they paid for the recapitalisation of the banks by memorandum; now they will pay for their own recovery by losing their homes, with thousands of auctions unleashed. capitalist growth doesn't come as you expect. your banks are in trouble, so you're consolidating, strengthening the banking system, alternative financing from the capital markets union or from the subsidized private insurance companies, who like crows are exploiting the demolition of social security. that is, the crisis and recovery of capitalism will be paid for by the people, if they do not choose their own path to serve their own contemporary needs against capital and its power.
the commission mr president, the single supervisory mechanism set up within the banking union to supposedly contribute to the stability of the financial system has proved inadequate for the resolution of banks. because of the economic crisis, trillions of euros of public money have been allocated to bail out banks, burdening the public debt of states, and all this while the funds allocated to unemployment are minimal. in greece, three bank recapitalisations increased the public debt and socialised the banks' losses. in fact, the third memorandum sold the banks back to private individuals and crows instead of a lens panel, resulting in a loss of thirty billion euros to the public. and as if that were not enough, the banks, having been bailed out, are now selling the red mortgages to speculative funds and crows who are preparing to hammer the homes of the greeks. but that is something the greek people will not allow. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment. mr buonanno, in greece the solution proposed for small banks, and in particular for small housing banks, is unacceptable, and it is unacceptable because many of them should have been supported. but these small banks were not supported, and as a result they went into liquidation. i believe that the banks which are in the periphery, the cooperative banks, should be supported, because they are the ones who contribute to the real economy. in connection with the recapitalisation process in greece, what we saw was that instead of a billboard, private individuals took back the banks they had before, and so the public lost thirty billion euros.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the soviet union, and it has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the soviet union. we categorically condemn the state violence of the government of kazakhstan, the suppression of democratic rights and people's freedoms, the working class movement and the communists by banning the communist party of kazakhstan. the report, the joint report of all the political groups, does not mention these events. it makes no mention of the murderous police attack on the striking demonstrators in the city of zanaozen, the death and injury of dozens of them, the pogrom of persecution against dozens of other activists, nor does it mention anything about the law on suffocating control of trade unions. the alleged concern of the european union and parliament is hypocritical and selective, since similar measures are being applied in its member states at the behest of these organizations. we express our full solidarity with the communists and the class movement of kazakhstan. hands off the communists of kazakhstan!
the commission madam president, the state-controlled economy in kazakhstan has been severely hit by the fall in the price of oil. the national currency has lost half its value since last summer and all indications are that the crisis will continue throughout 2016. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia. the rights of minorities, especially the russian element, must therefore be respected, as must the will of the people of kazakhstan. but the regime silences freedom of the press, civil society organizations, violates workers' rights and collective freedoms. the european union must send a strong message to kazakhstan, which is an important trading partner of the union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the murder in egypt of giulio regeni, a citizen of the european union, has spilled over the top. we condemn the murder of giulio regeni, we express our condolences to his family and we express our support for the friends of our italian colleagues who have just spoken. the european union should send a strong message to egypt that it must respect human rights, and the egyptian leadership should understand that the suppression of democratic freedoms and the egyptian people is butter on the bread of jihadists who are looking for revenge. it is clear that the european union must express its condemnation of the murder of giulio regeni in the strongest possible terms.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the after the arab spring, tunisia is the model country in the process of transition to democracy. the european union, in an effort to help the country both politically and economically, has decided to allow the duty-free import of an additional 35 000 tonnes of olive oil, in addition to the 56 000 tonnes already imported under a preferential system. unfortunately, measures which could ensure financial support for tunisia without at the same time jeopardizing greek and european olive oil production were not included. i therefore had to vote against the report as a whole.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the most negative is aid to a non-eu state at the expense of eu members already in difficulty, such as greece and italy. he doesn't think twice.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ we were waiting for the council opinion regarding the emergency trade measures on tunisia. i regret the fact that the council approved all the amendments and the final report without changing anything. this is why i voted against this report. i believe that exacerbating the economic situation of european oil-producers is not the solution to help tunisia.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of emergency autonomous trade measures to the republic of tunisia for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 24/2/2016. i would also point out that while greek olive oil producers have suffered enormous damage from the severe weather events that affected their production last year, at the same time comes the decision of the european union granting a duty-free import quota of seventy thousand tonnes of tuna oil for 2016 and 2017. this action by the union will cause incalculable damage to impoverished greek producers, who are already seeing their oil prices collapse this year.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the eu-tunisia agreement for the duty-free import of 75,000 tonnes of olive oil into the eu for the years 2016-2017 is another painful blow from the eu to the poor olive growers of greece. the agreement comes as the cap has dealt a crushing blow to small and medium-sized farmers and the syriza-anel coalition government together with the eu and imf is seeking the coup de grace with barbaric anti-people measures. it coincides with the attempt to strike at the just struggle of the poor peasantry, because they are fighting in the blockades for survival. the lies that the deal is being made to "counter terrorism" and "promote the democratization" of tunisia are not misleading anyone. the main objective is to lower the producer price of olive oil so that intermediaries and wholesalers can continue to buy cheaply and sell expensive. the workers will buy the oil at a high price, while the poor producers will be enslaved to exploitation. the agreement serves only the profits of large business groups in the transport, export-import, distribution and marketing chain. the poor peasant girl can draw her own conclusions. its own way is its struggle in alliance with the working class and the other poor popular strata against the monopolies and their power, their imperialist associations that serve them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the eu-tunisia agreement for the duty-free import of 75,000 tonnes of olive oil into the eu for the years 2016-2017 is another painful blow from the eu to the poor olive growers of greece. the agreement comes as the cap has dealt a crushing blow to small and medium-sized farmers and the syriza-anel coalition government together with the eu and imf is seeking the coup de grace with barbaric anti-people measures. it coincides with the attempt to strike at the just struggle of the poor peasantry, because they are fighting in the blockades for survival. the lies that the deal is being made to "counter terrorism" and "promote the democratization" of tunisia are not misleading anyone. the main objective is to lower the producer price of olive oil so that intermediaries and wholesalers can continue to buy cheaply and sell expensive. the workers will buy the oil at a high price, while the poor producers will be enslaved to exploitation. the agreement serves only the profits of large business groups in the transport, export-import, distribution and marketing chain. the poor peasant girl can draw her own conclusions. its own way is its struggle in alliance with the working class and the other poor popular strata against the monopolies and their power, their imperialist associations that serve them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the report on veterinary medicinal products shall include the harmonisation of requirements for veterinary prescriptions and the recognition of prescriptions in all member states, always in line with national legislation. it also includes stimulating innovation and the development of new veterinary medicines and harmonising the protection periods of new data packages relating to antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products (patents). the report refers to action to reduce the use of antibiotics and sets out requirements for labelling packaging. it also simplifies requirements on applications for restricted markets, facilitates the circulation of veterinary medicines across the eu with clear rules on online sales and includes addressing the public health risk of antimicrobial resistance. i voted in favour of the report, with the aim of having a regulation that provides better access to veterinary medicines, takes measures to combat antimicrobial resistance, reduces the administrative burden, and promotes innovation and competitiveness in the sector.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, if the majority of the greens' amendments pass or if the ppe's amendments do not pass, because it is a very important text for public health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products. in any event, for reasons of public health, the new regulation should allow member states to maintain or adopt more far-reaching rules on the use and prescription of antimicrobials. for health and environmental safety, authorised veterinary medicinal products should be used as a priority. the use of medicinal products for human use must be subject to strict conditions.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products, in agreement with the rapporteur's proposal.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the present report, which i voted in favour of, lays down the community procedures for amending the regulation on the authorization and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. this is necessary to decouple the central marketing authorisation for products intended for human and animal use so that the new veterinary medicinal product regulation covers the entire marketing authorisation procedure for veterinary medicinal products at central and national level. the socialist and democratic group is seeking the involvement of the european parliament as a co-legislator in determining the structure and level of fees to be paid to industry by the european medicines agency.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: - we are overwhelmed. the report concerns provisions relating to the marketing of veterinary medicinal products. all the improvements it proposes are in the right direction, especially those which prevent the commission from being over-concentrated and allow the european parliament to control its actions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the introduction of community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and to the establishment of a european medicines agency. the report is in the right direction, especially those amendments which prevent the commission from being over-concentrated and allow the european parliament to control its actions.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to update and improve veterinary medicinal products legislation, since it exists since 1965. the aim of this report is to address the characteristics and specificities of the veterinary sector and to tackle some problems of the sector (administrative burdens, reduced competitiveness, innovation). i voted in favour of this report since it will change positively the veterinary medicinal field.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9/3/2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it seeks to identify broadband infrastructure investment, consumer protection, opportunities for smes, smooth and efficient innovation processes and data protection as priorities in a thriving data-driven economy. the above resolution is the response, noting the shortcomings and expectations in the strategy announced by the commission in july 2014 on the transition to a data-driven economy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the development of technology is a means in the hands of man to improve his life and to develop entrepreneurship and work. but it can also be used for criminal purposes such as the invasion of personal data and privacy, terrorism, etc. the european union must educate and help its citizens to use data, but also protect them from malicious actions by individuals, organisations and states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the development of technology is a means in the hands of man to improve his life and to develop entrepreneurship and work. but it can also be used for criminal purposes such as the invasion of personal data and privacy, terrorism, etc. the european union must educate and help its citizens to use data, but also protect them from malicious actions by individuals, organisations and states. i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission had presented its communication on data-driven economy and it was up to parliament to give its opinion. i think that privacy and data protection are indispensable and cannot be compromised. a data-driven economy should be built on anonymous data. i am concerned about the use of data for corporate and governmental surveillance. this is why i voted abstention.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the motion for a resolution on the transition to a thriving data-driven economy for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7 march 2016 and because the motion for a resolution in question is incomplete.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ negative, because when the eu intervenes in states at war or in a generally unstable situation, it only creates more problems and migrants to europe.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against all the reports on the situation in eritrea, because when the eu intervenes in states at war or in a generally unstable situation, it only creates more problems and migrants to europe.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in eritrea for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9 march 2016 and because the motion for a resolution is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ negative, because when the eu intervenes in states at war or in a generally unstable situation, it only creates more problems and migrants to europe.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the 2015 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because it presents several incorrect remarks and ambiguities and does not mention the most important thing, which is the name issue and that this comes from the attitude of the skopjeans.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i voted against the motion for a resolution on the 2015 report on fyrom for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9 march 2016 and because skopje has closed its borders for several days, with the result that more than 15,000 refugees are trapped in idomeni. the european union is also calling on the council to take action to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region. the commission has not, however, taken any action to force skopje to comply with its obligations under international law. the skopje also violated greece's territorial integrity a few days ago, dropping flash-bang grenades, tear gas and chemicals on greek territory in order to push back the trapped refugees, so that they do not approach the barbed wire of shame and disgrace they have erected. in addition, the rapporteur should use the term 'fyrom' in his report and not 'macedonia', which he is using incorrectly, in violation of the un resolutions recognising skopje as fyrom. i would like to say again that i am absolutely opposed to any possible accession of skopje to the eu.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the integration of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia - the official name of the country not covered by the 2015 progress report - into the european union aims to strengthen european capital in the balkans as an energy corridor, investment area and geostrategic front against russian interests. the people of the country will pay with even harsher anti-working class measures the plans of the domestic bourgeoisie. the process of integration of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia began with war, the breakup of yugoslavia, and the creation of nato and the european union as protectorates. today, as a result of its european integration, fyrom has closed its borders in an unacceptable way, with a brutal crackdown on refugees who are trapped in greece. the eu's decisions also put their signature on this barbarity. the policy that he is reproducing in the european parliament and the so-called 'friends of macedonia' group is cultivating ethno-religious divisions, irredentism, challenges to sovereign rights, turning the balkans literally into a 'smoke depot'. it turns out that the eu, the bourgeois governments and the system they serve mean exploitation, poverty, competition and war. that's why the people need to overthrow them by paving the way for a society without exploitation, with themselves in charge of their land.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this european parliament progress report on montenegro for 2015 refers to the progress made by the country in european integration. it welcomes the steady progress made in the accession negotiations and stresses the further steps to be taken (in particular in the area of freedom of the press, the fight against corruption and the lack of coordinated cooperation between the government and the opposition). finally, in the report which i voted in favour of and in which i am the shadow rapporteur, we succeeded in getting an amendment which stresses the need to separate the eu accession process of montenegro from the nato accession process.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ negative, because once again the eu is trying to trap a state with the classic methods of indirect threats and is encouraging the subjugation of another state to its rules.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the 2015 report on montenegro because once again the eu is trying to trap a state with the classic methods of indirect threats and is encouraging the enslavement of another state to its rules.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the 2015 report on montenegro because it is not complete.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the banking union report because it is one of the key achievements of the eu since the beginning of the financial crisis in 2008 to ensure security and resilience for the financial and banking sectors, as well as to restore investment confidence in the real economy and to have a high level of protection for citizens against the failure of banks and financial firms. we have fully supported the first steps: the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), operational since november 2014, and the single resolution mechanism, fully operational since the beginning of this year. the third pillar is a joint deposit for the insurance system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the absence of these missing elements, the banking union cannot be considered to be completed and therefore must be able to fulfil its ambition and reduce risk. it should be a priority for the european parliament for the coming year.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the pursuit of a global economic mobilization to achieve more and better quality banking capital crushes national economies and leads to impoverishment of citizens. in the context of structural reform of the banking sector, the creation of a single resolution mechanism and a single supervisory mechanism with the aim of a single eu-wide banking resolution has the effect of placing a burden on citizens, in particular greek taxpayers and depositors.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the pursuit of a global economic mobilization to achieve more and better quality banking capital crushes national economies and leads to the impoverishment of citizens. in the context of structural reform of the banking sector, the creation of a single resolution mechanism and a single supervisory mechanism with the aim of a single eu-wide banking resolution has the effect of placing a burden on citizens, in particular greek taxpayers and depositors. for the above reasons, i am voting against the report on the banking union - annual report 2015.
in writing. ‒ this is the first report on banking union after the main elements have been settled: bank recovery, the single resolution mechanism and the single supervisory mechanism. none of our amendments were included in order to improve the report. i regret the fact that the report is still vague on the main points, i.e. no criticism of the past achievements of the banking union, no explanation of how the ecb will handle its power concentration. this is why i voted against this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the banking union annual report 2015 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 10 march 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
the commission mr president, the mistrust and euroscepticism of citizens is the result of the failure to comply with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity in the formulation of eu policies. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the greek people are not lazy, corrupt or dishonest. only gullible and misled by political backpackers and controlled media, domestic and foreign. for six years they have been misled into believing that the memoranda and the implementing laws are imposed for their benefit and for the sake of the viability of their country, while they themselves maintain lavish bank accounts and foreign companies. scandals that are covered up, tax fraud lists that are never investigated, corrupt politicians hiding behind parliamentary immunities. how proportionate and supportive is that to the citizens who don't have food or medicine to pay for? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the greek authorities are able to comply with the provisions of the memorandum of understanding. only the principles of punishment, banking macroeconomics and the plundering of private, real and movable property. the lies are over and so are the failed governments of the right and the left. we as nationalists say yes to a europe of peoples and nations, but with justice to proportionality and subsidiarity.
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to article 4 of the treaty on european union, any competence not conferred on the union by the treaties belongs to the member states. this provision solemnly establishes that the presumption of competence is that of the member states, which retain their exclusive sovereign rights in all areas except those in which the treaty, on the basis of the principle of conferred competence, confers powers of action on the institutions of the european union, which, moreover, when acting in the field of conflicting competences, must respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. in greece, the european commission and the troika and the ecb are constantly and brutally violating the principle of conferred competence, by acting in areas which are not even within the competence of the european union, by imposing cuts in wages and pensions, by raising income and property taxes, by dismantling the social security system and labour relations, and by demanding the sale of public assets. the commission, ladies and gentlemen, please stop breaking the law and violating the treaties of the european union!
the commission mr president, as a professor of european union institutions at the university of crete, i have always attached great importance to the role of the commission, and i continue to do so, because the commission is the guardian of the application of community law. the commission has the tools to assess the efficiency and appropriateness of the legislative work produced by the institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but the commission is not doing the same, mrs jurovà, as a member of the troika in greece. because that's where the conflict of interest comes in. the commission is clearly acting as the representative of the creditors, and i will give you an example. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. pension matters are the exclusive responsibility of the member states. you are doing the same with the tax-cutting policy you are imposing on greece. so there, as a member of the troika, you are evading your responsibilities.
the commission madam president, since january 2014, erasmus+ is the new education and training programme, which, with a budget of €15 billion, will offer four million students the opportunity to study or work in another eu member state by 2020. the programme also aims to improve career prospects and provide students with social links. however, social and economic realities show the need for this programme to be adapted to the economic needs of each country. in particular, extreme imbalances in unemployment rates are observed in the countries of the union. greece has an unemployment rate of 24% and a youth unemployment rate of 48.9%, as a result of the violent fiscal adjustment and austerity policies and memoranda imposed on greece. the european union must therefore allocate more funds to countries with high unemployment rates.
the commission madam president, multilateral cooperation between the european union and the various international economic organisations, and the separation of their functions, must be implemented at all times, and this is a real necessity in order to achieve financial stability and growth. the european union must put its own house in order. in particular, there is a need to redefine the european central bank's supervisory tasks and its participation in the troika's programmes. in greece, the european central bank acts as the country's lender and not as an independent monetary authority, resulting in a conflict of interest. this will of course stop when the european central bank leaves the troika. in addition, the ecb should abandon the 'merkel' austerity strategy and actually contribute to the provision of liquidity in order to achieve low interest rates and stimulate growth. the european union must also contribute to balanced economic and financial cooperation by freeing the countries of the south from credit suffocation.
the commission madam president, i refer to the rules of procedure because, according to the rules of procedure, the rapporteur has no right to give speakers instructions on what to say. secondly, what i said is directly relevant to the report and the rapporteur had to say that the european central bank is currently in breach of the treaties by participating in the troika. the european court of justice has said that, so bring her back into line.
the commission madam president, coastal fishing is a socially sustainable form of fishing which, according to the common fisheries policy, can increase competitiveness and entrepreneurship in the fisheries sector. however, in many member states of the union, coastal and island regions are experiencing a significant economic downturn resulting in a decline in population and the flight of residents. in addition, in countries such as greece which are affected by austerity measures and the memorandum, fishermen are experiencing the consequences of the troika's agricultural memorandum, resulting in an economic recession which is much more severe. the european union therefore needs to take immediate action to rebuild the primary sector, to focus on the blue economy, to boost employment in coastal and island regions and to increase eu funding in the fisheries sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen's income is not affected by the current situation.
the commission madam president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs nikolai, on her report, because it really covers the issues that concern us. in the context of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, the united nations general assembly decided to establish an international legally binding instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity. in particular, it was stressed that this objective must be achieved and that the european union's fishing industry and market should be oriented towards sustainability. the un convention must of course be applied by all countries, not only the countries of the european union but also the countries which are candidates for accession to the european union and the others. at the same time, in addition to protecting resources, i think i should once again stress that the european union must finally get serious about supporting fishermen in all the member states, and in particular in my country, greece.
the commission madam president, the conflicts in the fisheries sector are no longer ethnic, but are between the european union's fishermen, who have been impoverished by the economic crisis and the tax-cutting austerity policies, and the european commission, which is taking steps to protect marine resources. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the fisheries agreement with the united states, which is a very important step forward in the fight against the spread of the disease. a reasonable external dimension of the common fisheries policy must safeguard the interests of european fishermen, especially the smallest ones, and require sustainability, food security and the fight against illegal fishing outside the european union, because the impact on marine ecosystems knows no bounds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the report by mrs metsola and mrs kyenge is very important, a very good, balanced and holistic approach which does not deal with the problem at the level of temporary management but, on the contrary, suggests a definitive solution to the problem that has come to us. the problem of migration is calling for the european union to challenge its principles and values. it is necessary, here and now, to change attitudes, to change perceptions and to change approaches to this problem, and i say this because you know very well that the institution of relocation cannot function if there are member states which do not agree with our decisions. the institution of resettlement from third countries cannot work either if there are member states which close their borders and tamper with the essential schengen institution. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to say that it is a good one. otherwise, we will not be able to deal with unaccompanied children, the most sensitive core of this case that the report rightly takes up, nor with these desperate people, whom some count as mere statistics and numbers, and not as human lives, who left as refugees to come to see, on our continent, a better life and a better standard of living.
the european union, mr president, together with its allies and competitors, is also treating the refugees, the victims of its bombings, in the same way as it is treating the syrians. the european union has a duty to help the people of the region, and to help the people of the region to be able to live in peace and security. the european union and the greek government, with your dangerous decisions, take full responsibility for the situation created by the involvement of the ngos you are exploiting. in your language, 'active immigration policy' means schengen, dublin being strengthened, the imprisonments, the deportations of refugees and migrants. by rejecting the majority of asylum applications, you accept only a few, those who meet the standards that business groups demand for their profits. the peoples, in their struggle against the imperialist war and in their solidarity, must demand an end to the wretched conditions in which refugees are living and their immediate transfer to the countries of their final destination.
the commission the european union's efforts to deal with migration flows are a "gross failure", mr president. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead, we seek to deal with its results in a way that is more painless and cost-effective for money-hungry european leaders. the policy of mass immigration is not a solution to europe's demographic and labour problems. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the open border policy is the motivation and encouragement for the largest influx of illegal immigrants into europe. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the immediate and feasible solutions are: the annulment of the agreement with turkey, the reintroduction of national border protection, the immediate deportation of illegal immigrants, the criminalization of illegal entry, the strictest penalties for smugglers. but these can only be realized by nationalist governments.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the report we are discussing today rightly highlights the weaknesses of the dublin regulation and rightly calls for an immediate review of the legal framework, based on the principle of fair sharing of responsibility and providing adequate financial and technical support to the member states of first entry of asylum seekers, such as, in particular, greece and italy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the relocation programme is a prime example. of the 160,000 posts envisaged, only 2,200 have been made available by the member states and, of course, in addition to the member states, the applicant countries must also show respect for european principles. the excessive use of force by the police in skopje against refugees and migrants the day before yesterday and the dumping of chemicals by them on greek soil are incompatible with the status of a candidate country for accession. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
gue/ngl), a reply to a question with a blue card. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the right of asylum is respected in all member states. it is not possible for it to ignore the decisions of the european council and refuse to accept the people who are its own and who are only a small percentage of the whole. if everyone follows this line, the union is going to fall apart.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. on the contrary, a futile agreement with turkey that violates international law and regulations of integrated strategies that move to the limits of the wish lists. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it gives top priority to the need for permanent strong and effective search and rescue operations in the mediterranean. it calls for safe and legal pathways for refugees, with binding and mandatory legislation to resettle large numbers of them. it is a fact that the european union has been able to take a number of steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. as daring as it may be, it's a first step. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
gue/ngl), a reply to a question with a blue card. madam colleague, have you ever considered asking to take your own share of responsibility for your own prime minister publicly stating that he used false evidence to attack iraq, to tear an entire country apart? have you ever thought about that as a people, have you ever thought about the responsibilities you have to this whole world that you have forced into the streets, to have no homes, to have their children starve, to be forced right now to be refugees all over europe and beg to live like human beings? have you ever thought about that?
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the last two weeks we have seen a reduction of 80% in the number of people coming to europe, which is a very positive development, because we do not want a fortress europe, we want a europe which welcomes the persecuted, welcomes the poor, but welcomes them at a pace which does not put its own social and political system to the test. the very fact that all the people who are in trouble all over the world are looking for a better future in the european union, i think shows that despite our problems, we have great successes that we have to support. i therefore believe that by restoring the balance, by restricting the flows, we will be able to deal with the problem in a humane and cost-effective way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not think we are doing anything different at the level of the european union than they are at the level of the commonwealth, and i think what they have done in the united kingdom in the last few decades is generally right. so, just as they give a chance to a poor pakistani, shouldn't we give a chance to a terrified iraqi?
we've finalized the list of registered speakers. i have received 15 requests for the catch the eye process, but we are already way behind schedule with a significant delay and we are obliged to be on time for the 12:30 p.m. voting. i shall therefore accept only five, one from each political group, to ensure that we proceed on schedule.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in greece is not so bad as it is today, and that the situation in the country is not so bad as it was in the past. thousands of refugees are still trapped in the idomeni, on the border with skopje, and since the relocation process has not yet begun, mr avramopoulos, the refugees are not even being persuaded to go to the relocation and registration centres, since of the 66,400 refugees to be relocated to other european union countries, only 569 have been relocated from greece, and as if that were not enough, the skopjes, constantly violating greece's territorial sovereignty, attacked with rubber bullets, chemicals and deadening hand grenades thousands of refugees, children and women, injuring hundreds. the process of relocating at least 6,000 refugees a month must therefore be put into effect immediately, mr avramopoulos, as you have already said. the european union is also calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the international obligations imposed on them by the european union.
thank you, mrs morvai, i listened carefully to what you told me, there is no discrimination. i fully respect the rules of procedure and the powers conferred on the president by them. fifteen colleagues asked for the floor by the catch-the-eye procedure, i explained why i can only give it to five, and it was accepted by all but you who protested by hitting the benches. i assure you that i am in full compliance with the rules of procedure and that there is no discrimination against anyone.
please, keep it down! don't make me enforce the rules. please, mrs. morvai, respect all the others!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the measures to mitigate the impact of the crisis on european agriculture, by mr czesław adam siekierski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-000055/2016 - b8-0352/2016) (2016/2611 ((rsp))
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. the european union is responsible for the crisis in the agricultural sector and for what will follow because of the wrong policies it is pursuing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the introduction of new products, and that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the introduction of new products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in greece the price of olive oil has fallen by 50 percent, leaving 700,000 olive farmers in financial ruin. the same applies to the questionable turkish products flooding the european markets. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states. we must therefore choose policies which will serve the european farmers.
ecr), in writing. farmers, particularly in the countries of the european south which produce 50% of the agricultural product of the union, have been brought to their knees by the programmes of forced fiscal adjustment, the merkel austerity and the tax-cutting policies imposed on them by the european banking system. in france, the impasse in which farmers have been driven is reflected in suicide rates that are higher than any other social group. the only way out is the path that the greek farmers have chosen with their great demonstrations in the winter against the agricultural memorandum and the new wave of tax incentive policy which, if implemented, will surely lead to the disintegration of the primary sector in greece and turn the greek farmers into colleges on their own land. with such struggles we will throw out the troika, the memoranda and the austerity policies to take the fate of our country into our own hands.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report we voted on concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application to products originating in certain countries of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the arrangements provided for in economic partnership agreements or agreements leading to the conclusion of such agreements. the report contains some positive elements in the context of integrated european relations with these regions, particularly in the commercial sector. the codification and recasting of the so-called 'market access regulation', which governs imports of products from african, caribbean and pacific countries, cannot, however, have as its primary objective the conferral of power on the commission to adopt acts establishing the arrangements for products from those regions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i agree with report a8-0010/2016. any codification and rewording of a text that promotes the purchase of products from outside the eu rather than from the member states is not a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the report is on a commission law on imports of products from acp countries. the aim of the legislation is to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification of the legislation. however, i voted abstention since i do not think that this legislation has only positive effects on products from acp and reinforcing trade relations.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application to products originating in certain countries of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states of the arrangements provided for in economic partnership agreements or agreements leading to the conclusion of such agreements (recast) because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ any codification and rewording of a text that promotes the purchase of products from non-eu countries rather than from the member states is not a step in the right direction
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on products originating in certain acp countries, as the purpose of codification is to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification in eu legislation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial and technical compensation provided for in the 1985 fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, the government of denmark and the local government of greenland. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not only economically viable, but also has a positive impact on the environment. i think that such measures have a positive effect on the functioning and the production process of europe, since in previous years there have been considerable gains from this cooperation for the fisheries sector and for this reason i have decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against report a8-0067/2016 as i am opposed to financial aid to greenland in any form, as eu resources and european taxpayers' money cannot be directed to third countries. if the eu wants to partner with the local government in greenland it must find a way that does not harm european citizens.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, of the other part, because it is complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states, while respecting their national and economic interests.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air transport between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china is part of an effort to intensify and regulate europe's relations with a region of increased economic and commercial interest. the existence of such projects can only have positive effects in the areas of security and smooth cooperation. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the eu-macao agreement on certain aspects of air transport because this agreement also gives the union superpowers, undermines the sovereignty of the member states, and once again serves the interests of the big airlines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the amendment or supplementation of existing provisions in bilateral air transport agreements between member states and third countries. the usual air carrier designation clause in these agreements allegedly infringes the right of free establishment of community air carriers designated by a member state but owned by another member state by enabling the third country to suspend and reject the licences of an air carrier. on this basis, the agreement on certain aspects of air transport between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region provides for the replacement of these traditional clauses with a clause allowing all european air carriers to enjoy freedom of establishment on equal terms, as well as the prohibition of practices that violate competition rules.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air transport between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china, because it is comprehensive and well documented.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against because the agreement gives the union superpowers, undermines the sovereignty of the member states and, once again, serves the interests of the big airlines.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i do not agree with this report and i am voting against it. the compulsory application of a standard vat rate, and therefore the extension until 31 december 2018 proposed in the report, is a utopia in a free market, especially in cross-border sales, where vat applies at the place of origin rather than at the place of destination. this may help the internal market to function, but it does not help national economies, since there is simply no maximum vat rate. vat rates should provide for a maximum rate for both normal and reduced rates.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax as regards the duration of the mandatory application of a minimum standard rate, because it is not complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the compulsory application of a standard vat rate, and therefore the extension until 31 december 2018 proposed in the report, is a utopia in a free market, especially in cross-border sales, where vat applies at the place of origin rather than at the place of destination. this may help the internal market to function, but it does not help national economies, since there is simply no maximum vat rate. vat rates should provide for a maximum rate for both normal and reduced rates.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting in favour of report a8-0070/2016 as it is clear that there is a need for strategic cooperation between europol and third countries to combat organised crime and enforce international law. the agreement also excludes the exchange of personal data. finally, brazil is a leader in the recovery of stolen assets and in the fight against terrorism.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the approval of the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the federative republic of brazil and europol, because it is sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the need for strategic cooperation between europol and third countries in the fight against organised crime and the enforcement of international law is clear. the agreement also excludes the exchange of personal data. finally, brazil is a leader in the recovery of stolen assets and in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol because it will help and strengthen the fight against organised crime and help improve cooperation in the field of international law enforcement.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of hermann winkler concerns a matter outside the member's political activities in his country of origin. as i believe that such cases should follow a smooth path to justice, i voted in favour of completing the procedure.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of hermann winkler, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on fisheries aspects of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. it is clear that this issue is directly linked to environmental issues and the protection of natural balances. i therefore believe that we should all be particularly aware of and support such proposals. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ biodiversity, not just in the sea but everywhere, is something we need to look after to ensure that it lasts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind, and that the fisheries sector is not left behind. for the above reasons, i am voting in favour of report a8-0042/2016.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on fisheries issues in the context of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, united nations convention on the law of the sea, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 11/4/2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ biodiversity, and not just in the sea, is something we must look after if it is to last. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind, and that the fisheries sector is not left behind.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on fisheries aspects of the international agreement on marine biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction - the united nations convention on the law of the sea, as it is extremely important to include fishing activities in this new instrument.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it contains legislative measures concerning the approval or recognition and registration of breeding organisations, breeders' associations and related private businesses, the registration and classification of animals in breeding books and, in the case of hybrid breeding pigs, in registers, performance testing and genetic evaluation, the content and form of zootechnical certificates for animal husbandry.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on zootechnical and genealogical conditions applicable to trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products does not concern only economic conditions and procedures. it is part of a wider framework of protection of both wildlife and citizens, since it extends to nutrition, production processes and food trade. it is therefore an important report which we must all support, and that is why i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions applicable to trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products, because it is comprehensive and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ the the present plan is not realistic and will complicate the breeding methods of the animals in question. cloned animals and their offspring shall not be involved in the breeding process. this process will act as a 'washing machine' in which the registered characteristics and data of the animals will be changed for the purpose of profit.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic european approach to migration aims to establish an inter-parliamentary view of the union's migration policy. according to the report, which i voted in favour of, a holistic approach to migration should include, among other things, the revision of the dublin iii regulation so as to create a central system for the allocation of responsibilities among member states, the organisation of coordinated union humanitarian operations, the existence of a binding and mandatory legislative approach to the resettlement of refugees, the revision of the blue card directive, the establishment of general rules on the entry and residence of third-country nationals seeking work in the union so as to fill labour market gaps and the mutual recognition of positive asylum decisions by all member states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted today on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach to migration. we all know that we are living in a very turbulent period, both for the member states and for the european union. i think it is particularly important to understand the benefits of a united, coordinated european effort to deal with the problems of refugees and migration. at the same time, we must focus on showing solidarity and adopting appropriate policies to help fellow human beings who are at risk. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the policy of mass immigration is not a solution to europe's demographic and labour problems. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the open border policy is a stimulus and encouragement for a greater influx of illegal immigrants into europe. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. for the above reasons, i am voting against report a8-0066/2016.
in writing. ‒ the positive points of this report are the recognition of solidarity as a principle for migration, not to criminalise ngos which provide assistance, the call on member states to fulfil relocation obligation and the need for a binding and mandatory legislative approach to resettle refugees. i voted in favour of this report, since it goes beyond existing resolutions and tries to facilitate the asylum procedure.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach to migration, for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 12/4/2016, and because the report is not well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report on migration reinforces the whole inhuman framework of the eu policy implemented by the syriza-anel government against refugees and migrants, which is why the kke voted against it. the adjustments to dublin iii proposed in the report and the commission proposals mark a further tightening of the conditions it imposes, by explicitly providing for the return of asylum seekers from other member states to greece as a first country of reception. it also includes sanctions against 'secondary movements', legitimising the entrapment of thousands of refugees and migrants in our country. asylum applications will only be accepted for those who are identified as 'applicants in clear need of international protection', unacceptably restricting the concept of refugee and violating the geneva convention. the proposed system already operates on the basis of hotspot detention centres, where cheap labour is screened for the needs of the monopolies. the rest are facing imprisonment and mass deportations. the single list of 'safe countries of origin' for all eu member states is the driving force behind these deportations. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is resolved.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the policy of mass immigration is not a solution to europe's demographic and labour problems. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the open border policy is a stimulus and encouragement for a greater influx of illegal immigrants into europe. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach to migration. the eu's approach to migration and refugees will largely determine the course of the eu in the years ahead. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the citizens' distrust and euroscepticism are the result of the failure to comply with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity in the formulation of union policies. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the 2012-2013 reports demonstrate the failure to apply the principles to the benefit of citizens, businesses and workers, to reduce costs and avoid unnecessary regulatory burdens, and that is why i am voting against them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the 2012-2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 11 april 2016 and because the report is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the citizens' distrust and euroscepticism are the result of the failure to comply with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity in the formulation of union policies. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the 2012-2013 reports demonstrate the failure to apply the principles to the benefit of citizens, businesses and workers, to reduce costs and avoid unnecessary regulatory burdens.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it includes legislative measures that will reduce unnecessary legislative burdens, while at the same time simplifying and improving the design and quality of legislation with a view to further employment growth in europe.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted on the programme for the review of the adequacy and effectiveness of legislation (refit), a subject which is directly linked to the question of improving the legislative process as it has been discussed in recent years. while we all recognise that there is a need to improve and speed up procedures with a view to creating a mechanism that is faster, more flexible and more effective, in practice we must be very careful as issues of weakening the rights of citizens, social groups or bodies arise. in view of this, i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the regulatory fitness and performance (refit) programme: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on the programme for the verification of the adequacy and effectiveness of the legislation (refit): current situation and prospects, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 11 april 2016, and because the report is not complete.
in writing. ‒ policy-making should in no case depend on the institutionalised opinion of companies or simply on the results of statistics. it is an unacceptable degradation of policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported the report on the regulatory fitness and performance (refit) programme: current situation and prospects, taking into account that the refit programme is crucial to the commission's new strategy on better regulation, simplification of eu law and reduction of administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it contains a reasonable number of proposals to make single market legislation more effective and efficient and move towards growth and job creation within the union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on improving the legislation for the single market which we voted on concerns issues of improving the functioning of the union and economic sectors and is therefore of particular importance. however, since there are no adequate answers to questions of evaluation of the proposals, the possibilities of the member states and the control of the effectiveness of the proposed policies, i decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on improving legislation for the single market. i do not think that the single market is in the interests of european citizens, on the contrary it has contributed greatly to the current economic crisis and also to the deprivation of some countries of valuable trained workers who could have contributed to the recovery of their economies.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i was absent from the vote on the report on improving the legislation for the single market because it is not complete. i would also point out that the single market has greatly helped the large companies and industries of the north, which have not invested their economic surpluses and profits in the countries of the european south in order to achieve growth and reduce their deficits and public debts. moreover, the wealth from the single market has not been distributed fairly among all eu member states, leaving countries like greece to continue to experience the austerity policies imposed on them by the troika. the single market legislation should therefore take more drastic measures to promote employment, starting with the countries of the south.
in writing. ‒ the single market is not in the interest of european citizens. on the contrary, it has so far contributed greatly to the current economic crisis as well as to the deprivation of some countries of valuable trained workers who could have contributed to their economic recovery.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on improving legislation for the single market. the single market is a key tool for restoring economic growth and job creation in the union and improving single market legislation should therefore be a key priority for the union.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's aim in this report is to promote a better understanding of the eu's values, culture and history and to help shape a european identity. all of the above will enable the european citizens of tomorrow to better understand the union's decision-making process in order to combat widespread euroscepticism. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on the integration of the european dimension in education, alongside the socialist and democratic group, since one of our objectives is to promote intercultural education without discrimination and exclusion.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on learning about the eu at school is a truly innovative proposal aimed at assimilating the idea of a united europe from an early age through school education. despite its positive aspects, however, it also has weaknesses, such as the failure to mention the structural problems currently existing in the functioning of the union, and it proposes wrong policies, such as giving the commission additional powers over parliament in implementing this programme. that is why i have decided to abstain from the vote.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on learning about the eu in school, as the report institutionalizes the imposition of novel concepts on education, essentially constituting nothing more than blatant propaganda and brainwashing of pupils.
in writing. ‒ in the midst of social and economic challenges, it is important to enhance knowledge about the functioning and tasks of the european union and its institutions. to that end, the present report introduces the idea of a european dimension in education. the concept embraces the promotion of learning about the eu’s history, geography and culture at school, as well as the development of skills in order for young people to live and act as citizens of pluralistic societies, without providing any harmonisation in this field. i acknowledge some positive aspects of the report, mostly relevant to the key role of programmes like erasmus+, the enhancement of intercultural exchanges, and training on eu topics for teachers at a national level. nevertheless, i decided to abstain. i believe that a european dimension in education should reflect both the role of the member states and the european union. on this basis, i can barely see any references to the impact that the ongoing european policies and the infringement of fundamental rights within the eu have on the way in which citizens apprehend the union nowadays.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on learning about the eu in school because it is comprehensive and well-founded. i would also point out that in the last european parliament elections only 42.61% of citizens and 27.8% of young people aged 18 to 24 voted, which is due not so much to the lack of learning about the functioning of the eu in school, but mainly to the extremely anti-people, neoliberal austerity policies that the eu is imposing on its member states. it is also due to the anti-people action of the troika in greece and other countries of the memorandum. the deepening and clarification of school curricula on issues relating to the functioning of the eu can be useful if the approaches of teachers are completely objective and are combined with a critical approach to the european institutions and the decisions they make. in particular, learning about the eu in school should not be used as a means of falsifying the history of the member states and adopting unhistorical narratives of european integration. before embarking on controversial education reforms, the eu must put an end to the ongoing levelling of its democratic structures and the oppression of the peoples of europe by the creditors.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report on 'learning about the eu in school' seeks to further strengthen the eu's propaganda mechanism by seeking to imbue pupils and teachers with the so-called 'values' of big business, in the name of the so-called 'european consciousness'. the committee on budgets has adopted a resolution on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2000 (com (2001) 560 - c4-0570/91) with a view to the adoption of a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2000 (com (2001) 560 - c4-0570/91). the report makes a science of brainwashing about "market adaptability" with a relentless hunt for skills, "lifelong learning" for corporate profits. 'in substance' is the justification of imperialist interventions leading to refugees, while the role of active propagandist of these bloodstained eu 'values' is reserved for teachers in the context of their 'lifelong professional development' and evaluation. 'body' of eu education is the rewriting of the history of peoples with anti-communism in which the 'special programmes for pupils and teachers' from the 'house of european history' will take the lead. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the people have the power to overthrow the power of the monopolies, to free themselves from the eu's bonds, and to open the way to their own interests.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report institutionalizes the imposition of novel concepts in education. it's basically an unveiled propaganda and brainwashing of the students.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on learning about the eu in school, which was discussed at length in the committee on culture and education. learning about the eu in school will help citizens to better understand the functioning and institutions of the eu, and knowledge and understanding of the common history and common values is crucial for mutual understanding, peaceful coexistence, tolerance and solidarity.
the commission mr president, lifelong learning is crucial for the development of an employee at every level. just as an athlete trains and stays in shape so that he can get better and have alternatives, so a worker cannot sit still. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. enhance lifelong learning and mobility of athletes to provide them with additional professional alternatives beyond their sporting careers and to open up their horizons, and fully recognise and respect their labour rights at all levels, particularly in the so-called 'minor' categories and younger athletes. i supported this report on erasmus+ and the promotion of vocational training.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the erasmus+ report, which refers to the continuation of the previous leonardo programme. the report calls on the european commission and the member states to adopt specific measures to improve the training and education of eu human resources through exchanges.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on erasmus+ and other tools to promote mobility within the eu, in a lifelong learning approach. such tools can indeed help to consolidate cooperation and efficiency in europe, in economic and social fields. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because it promotes the mobility of young workers within the union, which is responsible for draining many member states of valuable skilled labour. it also reduces education to a mere training, suitable only to meet the needs of the market and to exploit the surplus value of young workers.
in writing. ‒ we must acknowledge that programs like erasmus+ represent a key element for mobility within the eu. consequently, there is a need to guarantee the access of learners to vocational education, and to remove obstacles that are able to dissuade students from participating. i share the opinion of the rapporteur that disparities among member states in terms of economic and social realities, affect the effective accessibility to these programmes. however, we must not give the false impression that mobility is the unique solution in order to combat unemployment. even if the link between mobility and employability is still mentioned, the final report presents several improvements and provides some considerable guidelines for policy action implicating all the responsible actors. these are the reasons that have led me to vote in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on erasmus+ and other tools to promote mobility within the framework of the ejn a lifelong learning approach, for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 11 april 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ 'promoting mobility' and making full use of the erasmus+ programme, calls its report voted by the european parliament. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european apprenticeship scheme is a priority in the field of training and apprenticeship. these are programmes which legitimize the practice of work-hopping, the lifelong collection of deliberate fragmentary data. they seek to create a cheap labour force, mainly young people, who will learn to move from city to city and country to country on meager wages, without pension rights, in the name of gaining work experience, at the behest of business groups. this so-called 'sustainable integration into the labour market', which entails even greater intensification of exploitation for workers and profitability for monopolies, is the focus of the report, which calls on employers 'to participate actively in the design, organisation and implementation of vocational education and training'. the syriza-anel government is promoting all these programmes and implementing them to the letter. the kke group voted against the report, stressing that it is necessary for workers to fight for permanent and stable work with full rights and for the satisfaction of their expanded modern needs against the plans of the eu, government and capital.
in writing. ‒ this report promotes the mobility of young workers within the union, which is however responsible for draining many member states of valuable skilled labour. it also reduces education to a mere training, suitable only to meet the needs of the market and to exploit the surplus value of young workers.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the with this report on the role of the eu in international monetary and financial regulatory bodies, which i voted in favour of, we, the group of the party of european socialists, call for greater international regulatory cooperation, greater transparency, accountability and democratization of the system. the european parliament's involvement should be strengthened and the european commission should be directly accountable to the citizens. finally, the eu should improve its representation in multilateral organisations and bodies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the this report on the role of the eu in international economies, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies contains some positive provisions (such as concern about the distortion of responsibilities to the detriment of democracy, the issue of under-representation of the least developed countries leading to inequality, transparency and free access of citizens to all documents, etc.), but mainly promotes the creation of a global financial institution, the imposition of a common code of conduct and strengthens the power of supranational institutions resulting in the loss of sovereign rights of member states. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to accept the amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2016 in the form of a draft budget for the financial year 2017.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is the stability of the financial system, a coordinated action within the eu and a public intervention within the financial sector. i voted against this report, since i reject the creation of a global financial organisation, the establishment of one global financial and monetary organisation which will undermine national sovereignty.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the role of the eu in international economic, monetary and regulatory organisations and bodies for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 11 april 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ this report on the role of the eu in international economies, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies contains some positive provisions (such as concern about the distortion of responsibility to the detriment of democracy, the issue of under-representation of the least developed countries leading to inequality, transparency and free access of citizens to all documents, etc.), but above all it promotes the creation of a global financial institution, the imposition of a common code of conduct and strengthens the power of supranational institutions resulting in the loss of sovereign rights of member states.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on coastal fishing because it is a very important form of fishing in the eu countries. it guarantees a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. for most coastal and island regions, coastal fishing is a traditional form of fishing, a way of life and an important source of livelihood. areas dependent on coastal fisheries require specific measures and support in order to develop and evolve. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. coastal fishing guarantees a high level of employment in coastal areas and is generally a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. this is in line with the priorities of the socialist and democratic group on fisheries.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on small-scale fishing in areas dependent on it. the report deals with environmental, economic and social issues. as it relates to a specific fisheries sector, it contains specific proposals and manages to focus on environmental protection issues, but also on good practices in relation to marine fauna and the overexploitation of specific areas. i therefore voted in favour of the report, as i consider it a positive step.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i agree and vote in favour of the report as it promotes a more realistic and sustainable form of fishing, based on tradition and local community away from the industrialisation of this profession. the combination of fishing with delivery, tourism and various other activities can bring multiple benefits to the communities concerned.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the i believe that it is imperative to diversify the fisheries sector, and in particular coastal fishing, in relation to the other sectors of the economy. this need arises not only from the lower environmental impact of coastal fishing but also from the fact that some coastal and island regions are suffering from economic recession and are unable to achieve sufficient development and innovation. this report emphasises the need to address the identified shortcomings in adequate funding and obstacles to the exploitation of available resources and calls for a new legal framework that aligns the relevant fisheries policy regulations with the needs of coastal fisheries. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in fisheries-dependent areas for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 11 april 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the report promotes a more realistic and sustainable form of fishing based on tradition and local community away from the industrialisation of this profession. the combination of fishing with delivery, tourism and various other related activities can bring multiple benefits to the communities concerned.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in fisheries-dependent areas. the text rightly calls on the commission to consider the possibility of small-scale coastal fishing in island communities which traditionally depend on fisheries for their livelihood and engage in fishing activities throughout the year.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the external dimension of the cfp, including fisheries agreements, because in the eu the external dimension is considered to include fishing outside the eu's exclusive economic zones (eez) by eu-flagged vessels covered by two types of regulation. the first is fishing on the high seas, outside areas of national jurisdiction. there is a significant amount of this fishery and a large part of it is usually regulated by regional fisheries management organisations or rfmos. fishing outside eu waters also occurs in waters under the jurisdiction of third countries. this may be done in the framework of the bilateral agreement with that third country. the eu has concluded some 15 to 20 such agreements which are in force at any one time.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on the establishment of common provisions for the implementation of the external dimension of the cap, including fisheries agreements, raises the question of improving fisheries policies in order to adopt a better regulatory framework, protect the ecosystem and improve cooperation between the eu and third countries. i am not going to vote for the report, but i am going to vote for the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report. the cap, with its quotas, has produced no results in terms of the chronic depletion of fish stocks in our seas. under the cap, the eu retains almost total control over fisheries management with the member states having no substantial role in the decision-making process.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the adoption of common provisions for the implementation of the external dimension of the cap, including fisheries agreements, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 11 april 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the cap, together with the quotas it imposes, has not had a positive effect on the chronic depletion of fish stocks in our seas. under the cap, the eu retains almost total control over fisheries management, with the member states having no substantial role in the decision-making process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have once again observed a minute's silence in memory of the victims of the recent terrorist attack in brussels. mr president, you said we would not forget the victims. unfortunately, we will forget and refer to them if there is a new terrorist attack. the only ones who won't forget are the relatives and friends of the victims. we must not let fear, you told us, become hate. i don't know if it's gonna be hate, but it's definitely gonna be rage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the enemy is known. they are the ones who, in the name of god, take innocent lives. it's the work of the islamic caliphate and muslim fanatics all over the planet. there was terrorism before the rise of the caliphate, so there will be after its elimination, as long as there are fanatics. terrorists use migration flows and can move virtually unchecked between european states and training camps. it is the incompatibility of most forms of islam with european values that will always lead to extreme confrontations. we have to deal with the root of the problem. the european union is a great example of the european union, and it is a great example of the european union's ability to act. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. otherwise, the result will always be tragic.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the blue card. mr gonzález, you must have misunderstood or not heard very well what i said. i didn't speak for all muslims. i was talking about the islamist fanatics. the cry they make when they commit terrorist acts, "allahu akbar", does that mean anything to you? they murder innocent people in the name of their god, their own god.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we know the identity of the perpetrators. they are second-generation terrorists, european citizens who were radicalized and trained to hate europe, democracy and institutions. but we don't know how they're trained, how they're equipped, how they're financed. the prevention and suppression of this phenomenon require organised action and a unified european counter-terrorism policy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. how many lives and how many terrorist attacks must we accept before we understand that there is no contradiction between security and freedom? the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. because only the safe citizen can be truly free. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission madam president, the recent revelations about offshore companies in panama have simply confirmed what we already knew or even suspected. the political class in europe is following the example of corrupt businessmen. many representatives of both classes feel they are above the law, while imposing savage austerity measures on citizens and appearing as crusaders against tax evasion. how much of that money has been taxed? how much of it comes from illegal activities and how much is legal? there is a very serious moral issue and those involved in this case must be held to account and bear their heavy responsibilities. we should take action to uncover all those who hold accounts in offshore companies, as the names that have been leaked are a tiny fraction of the total number. the most important thing is to take measures to prevent this from happening again. offshore companies serve no purpose other than to make it easier for the owners to avoid the burdens that are theirs. we must review their status throughout europe. do they really serve society by existing? is there even a plausible explanation for their operation? because the answer is that there is virtually none, we must move towards a complete ban on offshore companies. any company wishing to operate in europe should acquire a tax residence within the union. of course, shell companies with no purpose should not continue to exist. but i fear that there is no political will for such measures, because it is likely, as has recently been revealed, that a large proportion of these companies are owned by politicians. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i agree with you completely. the european central bank is robbing european citizens and at the same time, as the panama papers have shown, politicians have placed a lot of black money in these offshore companies.
the commission madam president, we did not need the panama papers to know that large multinational companies, which generate profits, evade taxation through intra-group transactions and other means and hide their profits in tax havens. moreover, experts estimate the amount of capital invested in these states to be between seven and twenty trillion dollars worldwide, or between ten and thirty percent of the gross world product. in the european union, losses due to corporate avoidance through profit shifting are estimated at between eur 50 and 70 billion per year. the leaked files show that the tax evasion practices involved mainly companies in the banking sector, such as société générale and deutsche bank, but also other companies that have engaged in the justice in the past, such as siemens. the european union is responsible for the alleged investments of european companies in third countries. it is time to create a fair tax system, without grey areas, at pan-european level, with the aim of stopping the tax dumping of multinational companies in luxembourg and the netherlands and taxing multinational profits in the countries where they are made.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the recent revelations via panama of massive tax evasion and money laundering make clear the need for the european union to react in cooperation with as many non-european states as are willing to follow. the existence in various parts of the world of so-called 'tax havens' which support all forms of organised economic crime is a continuing challenge, especially when social protection systems for the economically weak are being demolished in the name of the fiscal emergency. a global list of countries that give undue advantages to foreign-sourced funds should be drawn up and all transfers to banks in these countries taxed. the commission is also proposing to introduce a comprehensive system for the protection of whistleblowers in order to tackle financial crime. the time for action is now.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr hill, you have presented too little and too late. the commission proposal is both late and inadequate, but even if it is fully implemented and absolutely successful it leaves a large part of the companies that are engaged in an orgy of tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax fraud untouched and will find the techniques to fit the thresholds you set. unfortunately, the panama papers leaks and the journalistic investigation revealed more than the mechanisms of the european commission and the council, and the member states. we have a provocative lack of justice, but also a lack of healthy competition, in favour of multinationals at the expense of small and mediumsized enterprises, at the expense of honest taxpayers and at the expense of the efforts of states to build a welfare state, public education, public health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax on profits is not imposed on the place where it is produced, and that there is a register, tax harmonization at european level and strict penalties. the commission must be more daring and the council, which is absent, and the member states must not constantly put obstacles in the way of the fight against this rampant tax evasion and tax fraud.
the commission mr president, according to recent oecd studies, aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance and evasion practices by many multinational companies result in tax revenue losses of at least eur 50 to 70 billion per year for the budgets of the member states of the union. of course, the protagonists in these tax-exemption and tax-avoidance practices are multinational corporations that pay little in the way of resources, thereby eroding the national tax base and hurting the economy. moreover, these companies avoid paying taxes on their profits through intra-group transactions, thereby saving billions of euros. in order to counter these tax ruling practices, the profits of each company should be taxed where they are made, in order to stop companies turning to tax havens such as the netherlands or luxembourg. otherwise, the countries of europe will not be able to develop as long as there are companies that avoid and evade taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the european commission's proposal to require multinational companies with an annual worldwide turnover of over eur 750 million, operating in europe, to publish information on the countries of origin and taxation of their profits is positive. although the limit of 750 million should be lowered. this is not enough, however, to tackle the problem of large-scale tax evasion by multinational giants, which results in the reduction of tax revenues of the member states of the union and the shifting of the tax burden onto the shoulders of employees and pensioners. we need a common european corporate tax rate to put an end to the informal bidding competition between member states which leads to multinationals not being taxed, so that each member state can attract them to its headquarters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission the european union has been discussing the need for a common foreign and security policy for some fifteen years. but no matter how many man hours are spent, no matter how many tons of ink are lost, there will be no common foreign policy in the european union. the reason is obvious: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has been a political union since the moment it decided to become one, and the interests of the member states have been at odds with each other. the european union has lost its cohesion. this truth has been recently proved: in order to cope with the tsunami of refugees and illegal immigrants, many states have closed their borders, regardless of whether they were effectively abrogating the schengen treaty. and they did this because it was in their best interests. the united kingdom is raising the threat of brexit because it is in its interest. worse still, germany has managed to dominate all of europe, resulting in states that are reacting because their interests are being hurt. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission madam president, mrs mogherini, the basic principle of the common foreign and security policy is the solidarity of the european union with its member states. but i did not see any solidarity from the european union with greece against the illegal actions of skopje. on 29 march i submitted a written question to you with priority requesting that you take action against skopje, because in mid-march the police in skopje attacked refugees who were inside greek territory in idomeni, throwing tear gas and chemicals. but nothing happened, and last sunday the skopjes were mined. they attacked the refugees, we had many more wounded, they fired and fired rubber bullets and we had many wounded. so why is this happening? if you had answered my question in time, within 10 days, you might have answered it on 8 april and cured the skopjeans of their cough. i'm waiting for an answer now.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have expressed my deep conviction from the outset that the cooperation and political dialogue agreement was a strong framework for developing equal relations between the european union and cuba. i have stressed that this joint effort must be guided by the principles of reciprocity and cooperation, without conditions or discrimination. the common position of the european union, although ineffective in practice, constituted a substantial obstacle since it violated the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of states. i am glad that mrs mogherini has announced her intention to withdraw the common position. the us blockade of cuba for 60 years was a criminal act against its people and its lifting must be completed immediately. it is worth noting that the blockaded cuba provides universal public free education with impressive scientific results, provides universal free health care and has the best indicators at all levels and is a pioneer in the fields of prevention and continuous research in the pharmaceutical and medical field. i stress this because i believe that speeding up the completion and signing of the agreement will be in the interests of both sides. i hope that the first positive results will soon be visible for the cuban people, who have not given up, even under the most difficult circumstances, their dignity and their right to decide for themselves about their lives and their country!
the commission mr president, we are discussing the agreement recently signed between the european union and cuba to normalize relations between them. negotiations under the political dialogue were already under way in april 2014 with the aim of paving the way for the establishment of economic relations between the 28 member states of the union and cuba. the agreement also covers human rights in cuba, in addition to trade and political dialogue. the european union is pressing cuba to sign international agreements. the european union, while proposing to cuba measures to protect human rights, has daily violated the rights of the union's countries, as set out in memoranda, and has thus imposed policies of brutal budgetary adjustment and austerity, and has impoverished these european peoples more and more. the european union should therefore take advantage of economic cooperation with cuba, but without intervening politically in the country, which has been affected by the united states embargo for fifty-six years.
the commission the european union has made the wrong choices in the major crisis affecting its environment. in the aftermath of the arab spring which was actually an islamist winter, it chose to go with the flow of destabilizing syria and fueled the daesh monster. now, she is trying to abdicate her responsibility for the refugee crisis she created, risking to cause an unprecedented humanitarian crisis in greece. at the same time, it tolerates turkey's eastern bargaining, which is exploiting the syrian crisis to advance its own strategy while strengthening daesh. it is time for the member states of the european union to stop defining their interests in terms of twentieth-century ideology. the european union's external strategy must be consistent with the economies and cultures of the european states and be guided by responsibility and foresight. otherwise, europe will remain what it is today: an irresponsible partner.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this fact, rather than justifying the intervention of european diplomacy with the same objectives and the same directions that failed in the past, should give an incentive to look for other development models that respect the specificities of this region. the european union's strategy cannot be construed as a complement to nato's plans. unfortunately, i did not see any mention or discussion in the report of the dangerous imperialist plans of turkey and of pan-turkism, which has been revived in recent years and is a major factor of instability in the wider region. the countries of central asia must no longer be seen as the arena of competition between the great powers for natural resources, and the european strategy must promote an equal relationship which respects the national independence of each state and serves mutual benefit.
madam president, despite the hopes that the european union's agreement with turkey to deal with the refugee problem has created, it is doomed to failure. firstly, turkey is not prepared to deal with the problem of smuggling people from its territory to greece. the boats carrying illegal migrants from turkey to greece leave very early in the morning, while the turkish coast guard starts patrols at eleven in the morning. so do the nato ships, so how is it possible to identify the smugglers' boats? in addition, turkey has issued a large number of many thousands of fake syrian passports to afghans and pakistanis. the turkish authorities will easily find out that the passports are forged, since they themselves have issued them, and will send them back to greece. so they're going to stay there and it's going to be a problem. finally, there is the information and the certainty that illegal immigrants will deny that turkey is a safe country and will not want to move and will remain in greece. so let us put an end to the hypocrisy and put pressure on turkey to implement the agreement. otherwise, the greek people, impoverished by the memoranda, will not allow their government to approve the three billion euro financing of turkey.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr. erdoğan is jailing journalists, closing newspapers, not even implementing the deal, but you are petting him and blaming tsipras. mr orbán, the far-right, does not accept a single refugee in hungary, but you are fondling him because he is in your group, and of course you are denouncing mr tsipras, perhaps you see him in your sleep. the greek people are proud, have a long history and a great deal to offer and will not tolerate these insults from any mr weber. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. my country, greece, is carrying a huge burden because of the war, the geography, but also the european failure and the greek people need more help and solidarity, not to be used as scapegoats or as punching bags.
madam president, the european union-turkey decision is adding new fuel to the fire of competition for the profits of business groups, with the european union becoming even more involved in the imperialist intervention in syria. the decision to open another chapter for turkey's accession to the european union rewards and legitimizes the growing aggression of the turkish bourgeoisie in syria, the aegean and cyprus. what solidarity are you talking about with the refugees? with fences, imprisonments, deportations and an unacceptable ping-pong of refugees? it is all very clear that you are trying to replace the geneva convention, that is to say, what is left of the protection of refugees, with inhuman eu mechanisms. mr. weber, why are you deliberately confusing political identities and talking about supposedly "communists of syriza", looking for "skylights"? syriza is the new social democracy in greece. it supports big business, it promotes barbaric anti-worker measures and memoranda, as do, of course, the social democratic and liberal parties. the european union is also calling for the effective implementation of the unacceptable decisions of the european union on refugees, but also for nato to act effectively in the aegean. the communist party of greece calls on the people, resolutely, to organize their struggle with a 48-hour strike in the face of the new barbaric measures brought by the syriza-anel government that affect both the greek people and the refugees.
the european union and turkey have signed a treaty which is a black page in the history of the european union and a disgrace to all those who have signed it. the european union, in order to get rid of a problem for which it is partly responsible, has christened turkey a safe country, defiantly ignoring that it is violating human rights and international law. the geneva convention has been thrown into the trash can. thousands of refugees are trapped in greece, without being granted the right to seek asylum in the country they want. the fyrom police are violating the rights of refugees and using brute force. the agreement opened up the door to turkey's accession to europe, while at the same time greece's national and sovereign rights are being called into question - greek airspace is being violated on a daily basis - and there are already or are being attempted to be established grey areas in the aegean sea with nato present. mr tusk, your "the best we could have done" has turned the european union's leadership into an extra in a play about the refugee crisis, starring mr erdogan.
madam president, the fact that there was no agreement on 18 march would be a very worrying development. but the positives end here. the european union-turkey agreement is complex, complex, worryingly vague. the european union-turkey agreement has turned an international european issue into a bilateral issue between greece and turkey. the european borders have been moved to the northern border of greece, in the idomeni, the greek border is closed. turkey receives three plus three billion euros. it has not fought the traffickers' networks, it has not imposed entry visas on citizens of north african states who, with 30 euros, travel to turkey and then cross, without a visa, the greek border and the european union. it has not adopted the framework for asylum as defined by the european directives. greece remains trapped with 53,000 refugees, the resettlement of refugees in the other countries is problematic and, unfortunately, the only solution is european integration, the european coast guard, the enlargement and deepening of our democratic institutions. europe is showing weakness when countries like lebanon and jordan can take in three million refugees, turkey can take in three million refugees, and europe cannot handle one million refugees with the dignity they deserve.
madam president, a month ago, in the debate on the forthcoming agreement, we warned you about the legal loopholes. but you have given mr erdogan the ability to act in a blackmailing manner and demand ever greater returns to make it self-evident. if turkey is indeed such a safe country, why don't we ask mr. bernemann, whose poem so annoyed mr. erdogan, to recite it in ankara or istanbul? today, three weeks after the launch of the app, let's be honest: the flows have decreased, not because the deal itself has worked, but because the northern border of greece has been closed. some people are comfortable with the situation, as there are no more refugees arriving at their borders. that is why they pretend not to see that greece has become a warehouse of souls, with images in idomeni and piraeus that do not honor european values. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and if some people do not want to implement it, because they have learned to take from europe whatever suits them, or because they use ethno-populism as a weapon of internal consumption, then they should have the corresponding sanctions with cuts in the structural funds.
in writing. the european council conclusions of 17-18 march 2016 stated that the heads of state or government of the union expect turkey to 'respect the highest standards of democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression'. since then, however, the erdoğan regime has not only continued unabated the violations of democratic principles and fundamental rights, particularly against the kurdish minority inside turkey, but is already attempting to suppress free expression in the member states of the union. the lawsuit brought by mr erdogan against a german satirical broadcaster and the systematic harassment of the defendant by various strangers, resulting in his being placed under police protection, constitute an unprecedented export of authoritarianism. at the same time, turkey continues to behave as an international agitator, systematically violating greek airspace, threatening the republic of cyprus and attempting to impede its legitimate exploitation of natural resources on the southern shore of the island, and inciting azerbaijan's aggression against armenia and nagorno-karabakh. it is clear that the union must take a stronger stance against the turkish regime, because the latter misinterprets tolerance and is becoming more fragile.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2015/009 se/volvo trucks) as the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the redundant and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request submitted by sweden egf/2015/009 se/volvo trucks) because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is a positive proposal to activate the additional support mechanism. i believe that the existence of such mechanisms is in the interest of states but also of citizens, as they can offer considerable help, especially in times of economic turmoil. i therefore welcome the fact that it has been activated and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: egf/2016/000 ta application 2016/technical assistance at the initiative of the commission), as the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims at providing assistance to enterprises that have gone bankrupt due to globalisation and/or economic crisis. i voted in favour of this report, since we reached to pass one amendment in order to extend the fund and another amendment to defend the wider use of the fund. one last positive element of this report is that we will have a better assessment of economic mutations causing the dismissals of egf beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, because it is well documented.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ the the management of the refugee crisis and the fight against terrorism are being implemented incorrectly by the institutions, because the european citizen and his safety are not a priority. they are blind to the cumulative influx of illegal immigrants, jihadists and criminal islamic extremists who are exploiting the refugee influx to enter europe. the fight against illegal immigration and terrorism is not achieved by creating funds, which are more a means of manipulating public opinion than a solution to the problem. the problem is not economic but social, religious, ethnic and, above all, european. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations under the budget.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 1/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: a new instrument for the provision of emergency support within the union, because it is sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the the european commission proposes to set up a new emergency mechanism for humanitarian aid the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial resources of the european union are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the financial resources of the union are used to finance the necessary measures. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. it should be noted that the temp is already almost exhausted and that, therefore, this transfer is worrying. the management of the refugee crisis and the fight against terrorism are being treated in the wrong way by the institutions, because the european citizen and his safety are not a priority. they are blind to the cumulative influx of illegal immigrants, jihadists and criminal islamic extremists who are exploiting the refugee influx to enter europe. the fight against illegal immigration and terrorism is not achieved by creating funds, which are more a means of manipulating public opinion than a solution to the problem. the problem is not economic but social, religious, ethnic and, above all, european.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the appointment of mr jereb as a member of the court of auditors, as mr jereb's cv and work are truly remarkable. he has experience in fighting corruption and squandering of resources.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposed appointment of samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors, as i do not agree with key points in the report.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility and of union interest should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the appointment of mr kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors, as i consider that mr kozlovs is a professional bureaucrat from brussels with no experience in the audit sector.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposed appointment of mr mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors, as i do not agree with the main points of the report.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility and of union interest should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the appointment of jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors, since he states that any rejection by parliament should be accompanied by sufficient and comprehensible reasons to enable it to consider withdrawing his candidacy.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposed appointment of jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors, as i do not agree with the main points of the report.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility and of union interest should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the renewal of mr balko's mandate for the simple reason that in his 6 years on the board of auditors he has not presented any achievement on corruption, fraud etc. all it shows are his relations with eu actors.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposed appointment of ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors, as i do not agree with key points of the report.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility and of union interest should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ mr wojciechowski is a professional politician (mp, mep, deputy minister) and former judge during the communist regime in poland. these two events raise concerns about his impartiality and his ethics, which is why i am voting against the report on the appointment of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposed appointment of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors, as i agree with the main points of the report.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility and of union interest should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against the article 106 objection to the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate because the objection is contrary to the draft measure on the grounds that the draft implementing act fails to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and fails to apply the precautionary principle. it is therefore consistent with the objective and content of the basic act and goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009. there are conflicting opinions on glyphosate, with the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) classifying glyphosate as a possible human carcinogen after evaluation by a large body of scientists, and the european food safety authority (efsa) based its decision on re-published studies prepared by industry.
in writing. ‒ the today's vote on the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance glyphosate in accordance with the regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to the implementing regulation, concerns a technical but particularly important issue. it is the duty of all of us to make a very careful analysis and decision on matters involving chemical or pharmaceutical elements. i believe that this proposal lacks sufficient evidence to support the renewal of the approval of this substance. and that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the objection under rule 106: renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate, as these amendments seek to alter the substance of the resolution and to continue the circulation of glyphosate, serving the interests of its manufacturing company, the well-known monsanto.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance glyphosate in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending the annex to implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011 (d044281-01 2016/2624 ((rsp)) because the motion for a resolution, as finally formulated by the ec plenary with the adoption of specific amendments, allows the use of glyphosate for 7 years, which is a very dangerous event for the public health of millions of people.
in writing. ‒ the the committee voted against the resolution on the renewal of the authorization of glyphosate, an active substance widely used in agriculture, crops and other crops, produced and marketed mainly by the monsanto monopoly. the world health organization recently classified glyphosate as a 'potentially carcinogenic to humans'. the commission nevertheless decided to continue its authorisation, and the european parliament, by voting in favour of the pp amendments and the resolution, approved it for a further seven years. since the opinion of the european parliament is not binding, the possibility of renewing his authorisation for 15 years is provided for in the relevant commission implementing regulation. it should be noted that other herbicides and pesticides with similar or worse effects are on the market. the whole debate about the eu and monopolies is part of the fierce competition between business groups. it turns out that they are not afraid to sacrifice even the health of the workers for the profits of the corporate groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the use of pesticides must be environmentally friendly, but much more so with a view to consumer health and the protection of human life.
in writing. ‒ the this european parliament report emphasises the need to shape a union that has an effective and strategic role on the international stage, so that it can meet as an autonomous actor the challenges arising from the constantly changing global environment in which we live today. in the report i voted for, the socialist and democratic group succeeded in including the need for a strong sense of solidarity between the member states, so as to combat crises or conflicts more quickly and more effectively and to promote the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the eu's presence in a changing global environment covers a range of issues in the light of contemporary needs facing the european union, such as terrorism and security strategies, citizen participation in decision-making and global governance. i believe that this text does not and should not represent the views of all european citizens, as it is characterized by very conservative and fearful views. i believe that europe needs more democracy and respect for the rights of citizens than conservative policies, and i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report. i am totally opposed to the creation of a joint eu military force and cooperation with nato, as i recognise that the interests of the member states differ considerably, and even more so those of the eu with nato and the usa. i also disagree with the eu's attempts to deepen cyber governance. i believe that the strengthening of schengen, the european border and coast guard and frontex will further strengthen the threats facing states as proven terrorists, taking advantage of the free movement and the incompetence of frontex, have infiltrated the eu and have engaged in murderous acts of terrorism. the eu must not 'transmit european values' as i believe this is cultural imperialism which considers the values of other peoples inferior and inferior.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, controversial and complex world, for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 12 april 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the role of the eu in a changing global environment is a polemical call by the representatives of capital for the intensification of the eu's military aggressiveness in defending and expanding the positions of the monopolies it serves across the globe. calls on the eu to: increase its military capabilities by strengthening the 'european defence technological and industrial base', the 'euro-army' and 'battlegroups' and their development into 'joint multinational military units' integrated into a common 'european defence union', reiterating the proposal for a 'permanent eu military headquarters' as a first step; it called for the promotion of military cooperation between its member states, the strengthening of cooperation with nato and the deployment of military forces in support of nato and for independent military operations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. all this to multiply the eu's military operations and wars all over the world, using every pretext. the eu and nato are wolf alliances, enemies of the people. it is in their interest and duty to fight to take into their own hands the power and wealth they produce, free from the chains of their monopolies and associations.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the creation of a joint eu military force and its cooperation with nato as we recognise that the interests of the member states differ considerably, and those of the eu with nato and the us even more so. the strengthening of schengen, the european border and coast guard and frontex will further reinforce the threats facing member states, as it has been proven that terrorists, taking advantage of the free movement and the incompetence of frontex, have infiltrated the eu and have engaged in murderous acts of terrorism. the eu's approach to member states must respect their sovereignty and accept their specific characteristics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is part of the european union's broader effort to expand its relations with the countries of central asia, given that they have important security and energy interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy aims to review the strategies and policies pursued by europe to support and promote its interests in the geographical area of central asia, as well as to develop partnerships with the states of the region. the report contains a number of positive elements concerning the smooth development of partnerships and the design of new policies which can benefit europe in the long term, and that is why i have decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ the report is rife with contradictions and inconsistencies. while acknowledging that human rights, freedom of expression and association are being suppressed and that opposition figures are being arrested in these countries, the text recognises common values, which is offensive to europeans. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the international covenant on civil and political rights. it also wants to prevent member states from strengthening their relations with these countries. for the above reasons, i am voting against report a8-0051/2016.
in writing. ‒ the priorities for the central asia strategy are human rights, the rule of law, trade, energy and transport. the partnership is about mutual interest, sustainable development and human rights. i voted in favour of this report since it focuses on boosting regional development, the rule of law and mutual partnership.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 12/4/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ the the report in question promotes the imposition of a western mentality and culture on eastern countries, without taking into account the specificities of the respective countries. this approach has proved to be wrong, harmful and disastrous for these countries. any strategy must be based on respect for the particular components of the societies and cultures of each region of the world.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution which refers to the need to tackle the threat of the zika virus which threatens women and children who are born and live mainly in the less developed regions. the problem of access to contraception and safe abortions and other broader issues surrounding the rights of girls and women in many countries therefore need to be re-examined. the resolution stressed the need to intensify research efforts on the virus and suspected symptoms, rapid diagnostic tests, treatments and vaccinations. prevention must be promoted through mosquito control and contraception, but we must also be prepared for an outbreak of the virus in central europe, which is described in detail in this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this motion for a resolution because, while it deals theoretically with the zika virus outbreak, it is in a perverse way promoting abortion, not only as a means of prevention for the virus but more generally as a perception, which i am totally opposed to.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the zika virus epidemic because it is comprehensive and well documented.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their views on the situation in the member states and to make proposals for the adoption of a new directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in poland, which expresses the european parliament's deep concern at the regression of the rule of law in that country, the paralysis of the polish constitutional court which endangers democracy and human rights, and which calls on poland to implement the judgments and recommendations of the judicial bodies in accordance with international and european standards.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution following statements by the council and the commission on the situation in poland is an attempt to protect human rights from being harmed by political confrontations or tactics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against all the reports on the situation in poland. the resolution is an unacceptable interference in the internal affairs of a member state, an unacceptable disregard for the sovereignty of the people and the will of the polish people, as it was emphatically expressed in the last elections, and it goes beyond the loose bounds of immorality of the union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution since its aim is to highlight concerns on the existing political and legal context in poland. all member states must fully comply with eu law in their legislative and administrative practice, and respect basic european values such as democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i voted in favour of this resolution in order to improve the legal situation in poland, and to reinstall the constitutional tribunal as an institution of checks and balances in poland.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the situation in poland because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the resolution in question constitutes an unacceptable interference in the internal affairs of a member state, an unacceptable disregard for the sovereignty of the people and the will of the polish people, as expressed in an emphatic manner in the last elections, and overall it exceeds even the loose limits of immorality of the union.
madam president, under the convenient pretext of tackling terrorism and so-called 'security gaps', you are, among other things, strengthening the euro-police, eurojust, the smart border, the schengen ii information system which collects and processes all personal data, and data relating to political, social action and beliefs. data protection is a free-for-all. the pnr, the new form of passenger record for flights within and outside the european union, is added to the vast network of repression that you are making giant. with the measures to combat radicalisation you deliberately 'package' the popular workers' struggle or the refugees with the action of reactionary mechanisms, creations of your own competitors. isis, al qaeda, the taliban were formed under the cloak of religion and funded by the european union, the united states and your allies. your aim is to shield the power of the monopolies from their real opponent, the people and their struggle against the rotten capitalist system that generates wars, poverty, refugees, murderous blows.
the protection of personal data is a fundamental right and any processing of it is in principle prohibited. only exceptionally and in the public interest, under strict conditions and with judicial protection first of all, then, freedom must not be subordinated to the profit of companies, not subordinated to the altar of insurance companies, not subordinated to the interests of banks. we see that companies have consumer data and they use it for speculation. some companies create a consumer profile, other banks create a borrower profile, insurance companies create an insured profile and businesses create an employee profile. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. the single european passenger name record (pnr) system is generally acknowledged to be a highly necessary tool in the fight against terrorism, particularly in the light of recent attacks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when we legislate in the eu, it is now clear that the security of citizens is not in conflict with the protection of personal data. ensuring high security standards for personal data, especially when exchanging information between law enforcement authorities, is imperative but cannot hinder or delay the investigation, detection, prevention and prosecution of crime. the new legislative package, the european directive and the regulation on personal data, forms a coherent legal framework for the management and processing of personal data, with a broad scope, ensuring strong privacy protection even in the difficult-to-manage online space and the fight against serious international crime. in modern democratic societies nothing is impossible. the established principles of necessity and proportionality show us the way to balance the protection of all our rights in a state of freedom.
madam president, in the previous debate we set out our views on the protection of personal data against powerful private interests. in the public sphere, security should serve freedom. in this context, freedom cannot become a meaningless concept and cease to exist in the name of security and the state of emergency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not think that there is a dilemma between security and freedom, because security must always be at the service of freedom. it is therefore only under strict conditions and subject to the principle of proportionality that measures can be taken to process personal data, and i believe that these conditions are not only not being respected but are, on the contrary, being circumvented by the pnr which, under the pretext of the terrorist attack, is coming too late to be institutionalized and is being presented as a panacea to deal with the jihadists who must be defeated in syria in order to cease to be a threat.
madam president, one cannot be completely satisfied with such a difficult report and with such a troubled country. but as chairman of the eu-turkey joint committee, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs piri, the party rapporteurs, mrs sommer, on the truly professional work they have done, in the context of the principles and values of the european union, with a sense of responsibility. the report does indeed mention many of the policy shortcomings of turkey. turkey must respect the sovereign rights of its neighbours, ratify the 1982 law of the sea, the only member state that has not yet done so, lift the threat of war against greece, stop its violations of the airspace and territorial waters of neighbouring countries, recognise the universality of the patriarchate and the functioning of halki, change its tragic policy, with many victims in southeastern turkey, and of course not open the capitals unless it confirms the european acquis and the principles governing the european union.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. and that is what mrs peary and all of us involved in the process believe. i would like to stress two points: you are calling on turkey to negotiate a comprehensive and viable solution to the kurdish question. · but as long as the european union labels the pkk a terrorist organization, while being part of the solution, it legitimizes turkey's purge operations, even inside syria. the european union is not a party to the treaty on european union, but it is a party to the treaty on european union. the european union is again deliberately involving third parties in matters which concern it, citing weakness. the second is the involvement of the imf. the results will be equally devastating for the people. wherever nato is involved, it increases tensions. i would like to conclude by asking what kind of accession procedure can be followed with a country, as described in the report, which is also in breach of international law and the agreements it has signed?
the question is "blue card". i would like to ask the honourable member why he is going to make us forget geography here, how he is proving that turkey is a european country.
madam president, the very name 'progress report for turkey' is unfortunate and shows that european politicians are exaggerating reality and wanting to serve turkish interests. turkey has made no progress in any of these areas. on the contrary, it has always remained an arrogant state, far from any sense of respect for its neighbours, with complete disregard for international law. we all know very well that the turkish government has supported the criminals of the islamic caliphate, that it has continued for 42 years to occupy illegally part of cyprus and that it is making territorial claims against greece every day. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not forced to leave the european union. turkey is either turning a blind eye or working with the slave traders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european parliament has recently decided to drag journalists from other countries to court if they dare to satirize the 'great sultan' erdogan, with the support of chancellor merkel who probably thought that there are many turkish voters in germany.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs kati piri, because her report on the situation is absolutely accurate. for us, this annual report is not an opportunity to accuse turkey, and the point that there is a backwardness in the areas of democracy, freedom of expression and the press, justice and religious freedoms only takes on its real meaning if it is the trigger for a deep debate with both the turkish government and civil society, which, even now, hesitantly continues to have as its vision european integration. but finally, a political solution to the kurdish question must be found, with a unilateral ceasefire and a simultaneous end to police operations, before actions such as the government's lifting of parliamentary immunity lead to even worse days.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, because of the refugee crisis we are in talks at the highest level with turkey, although the agreement does not seem to be having the expected results. it must therefore be made clear that we have not given a blank cheque and that respect for the lives of refugees and for fundamental human rights is required. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, which will be able to provide information on the situation in the region. the european union must respect the sovereignty of its neighbours, as we see provocative violations daily in the aegean. finally, the occupying troops must leave cyprus and, of course, we expect the recognition of historical facts, the genocide of the pontic, armenian and assyrian peoples. furthermore, turkey must respect our historic churches by operating them as museums and not as mosques, such as hagia sophia in trabzon and many others. turkey still has a long way to go. it must undertake many, many reforms to rebuild trust between us.
mr president, turkey continues to violate greek airspace and maintains the casus belli against greece. at the same time, turkish troops continue to occupy illegally 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus. turkey is working with daesh, doing business with the oil smugglers, arming daesh in syria and libya. at the same time, it is directing the slave trade rings that have filled greece with thousands of refugees. however, mr hahn, the european union is finally giving ankara a free pass and rewarding it by giving it a six billion euro dowry, by upgrading turkey in the political dialogue and by abolishing visas for turkish citizens, who are now flooding greece and the rest of the european union by the millions. mr. hahn, you have to understand! turkey is not part of the solution. turkey is part of the problem, as it was in the past when it committed the genocide of our pontian brothers, which is not even mentioned in the report, although it should have done so.
mr president, if a third independent observer could have been watching the discussions we are having here today, he would not have known what to understand. turkey is violating the agreements it has signed with the european union, but it is demanding that the european union implement them. turkey does not recognise the republic of cyprus, whose territory it illegally occupies, and it threatens greece with war, but at the same time it demands that these countries vote to open the chapters of their accession to the european union. it is illegally pushing hundreds of thousands of migrants into greece and the european union is paying it three billion euros, and because we are talking about turkey's progress report, the independent observer could point out that turkey has made significant progress on very serious issues: breaking international law, human rights violations, silencing the press, imprisoning those who express views that are not to the liking of the new sultan of ankara, more precise bombing of the positions of kurdish fighters and finally, he would conclude, precisely because he is careless, that to solve all these problems, there is one immediate solution: turkey's accession to the european union.
madam president, commissioner avramopoulos and the commission in general are planning to include albania along with turkey, kosovo, skopje and bosnia-herzegovina in the list of safe countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i don't know if the end justifies the means. but, on the altar of finding a pressing solution to the migration crisis, are we sacrificing basic principles and universal values? has albania suddenly become a country where human rights, freedom of speech and freedom of religion are protected? where the internationally recognized greek minority of northern epirus enjoys the rights defined by international law and conventions? where there are no criminal gangs, branches of turkish, bosnian, kosovar and skopje gangs that trade in weapons, drugs, human organs and white flesh? have we forgotten or are we being naive and ignorant that in albania are living and training jihadist terrorists? it would be good if some european leaders, with their short memories and knowledge, would remember that the europeanisation of the balkans without respecting the basic conditions of stability and solidarity will lead to the violent balkanisation of the european union and, as has been said many times, the balkans are the powder keg of europe.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. albania, like every other country in southeast europe and as a european country, has the right to apply for membership and has the right to become part of this political family that we are in. the transformative impact of the approximation and accession processes will be crucial for albania to become a state of rule of law, respect for human rights, strengthening democracy and economic capacity. what is good is that the european process will accelerate and improve relations with its neighbours and that is where i see the particular added value of albania's european path.
madam president, albania is oppressing the greek minority in northern epirus and is daring to claim greek territory in its attempt to create the illusory dream of greater albania. the recent decision by albania to close its border with greece and to ban refugees from entering its territory violates, mr hahn, both the agreement of 25 october 2015 on the migration route in the balkans and the 1951 geneva convention on refugees. and all this is happening when the albanians themselves, after the collapse of the enver hoxha regime, have crossed the greek border unhindered, by the thousands, we have welcomed them, they have eaten bread in greece, they have worked in greece and they have sent their savings to albania. the european union has a duty to help the people of albania, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the people of albania, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the people of albania.
i thank commissioner hahn, minister hennis-plasschaert and my friend and colleague predi for the very high quality report on bosnia and herzegovina. this is the first report since the historic application for membership on 15 february this year, which we in the european parliament strongly supported, and which marks a new stage in bosnia and herzegovina's rapprochement with the european union. it is essential that the council and the commission process the application without delay in accordance with the teu and the practice established and that the preparation of an opinion on the application is started as soon as possible in order to grant bosnia and herzegovina candidate status. i call on bosnia and herzegovina to ensure, through negotiations with the commission, the adjustment of the stabilisation and association agreement in order to maintain traditional trade between croatia and bih. the establishment of an effective coordination mechanism for the eu involving all levels of government is essential to undertake economic and social reforms and to adapt to the eu acquis. it is also necessary to ensure the cohesion and functionality of the country and to prevent disintegration trends, especially from republika srpska. it is therefore necessary to proceed in due course to constitutional reform that will guarantee the equality of constituent peoples, and in particular to ensure the equality of croats, as the most numerous minority, and others on the principles of federalisation, decentralisation, subsidiarity and legitimate representation. i thank and give full support to bosnia and herzegovina.
madam president, the dayton agreement has not solved the fundamental problems dividing the peoples of bosnia. the croats are expressing their discontent that they are being forced to share the territory of bosnia with the bosnian muslims. the debate shows that bosnia does not respect the human rights of both the serbs who have returned there and the roma. the jihadists are also present in bosnia-herzegovina, and the mafia is rampaging everywhere. corruption is on the agenda, reaching the highest levels, while the rule of law is not functioning and the legal system is unable to enforce the law. this is also reflected in the low number of convictions. in the political field, the electoral law must be amended to lay the foundations for genuine democratic change. the role of civil society in the political system must also be strengthened, and in the economic field, mass unemployment must be effectively tackled.
madam president, all businesses, regardless of size, value trade secrets, confidentiality and intellectual property rights in order to foster innovation, competitiveness and research. in particular, smes place a higher value on trade secrets, as the use of intellectual property rights is costly and they often lack sufficient resources to manage and protect those rights. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because only then will the persecution of journalists and whistleblowers who expose financial scandals stop.
madam president, in the context of parliament's revenue and expenditure forecasts for 2017, security and cybersecurity have been identified as the primary objectives for the budget. in particular, an overall increase of 3,9% in the european parliament's budget in 2017 compared to 2016 is foreseen, while investments of eur 36,8 million are required to enhance security. in general, any measure in the field of security should be based on an assessment of parliament's needs and the risks involved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. finally, the development of parliament's budget for each year should be presented in detail in order to ensure transparency as regards the revenue and expenditure which is made. so transparency in everything and about everything.
madam president, small and mediumsized enterprises account for 55% of the total gdp of the european union. they employ 75 million citizens and depend heavily on bank lending to finance their activities. in order to enhance this lending by credit institutions, the capital reduction ratio for loans to smes has been introduced in the capital requirements regulation which, according to the european banking authority, should be revised. however, the effects of the support factor are not yet known. in addition, in countries such as greece, which has been impoverished by the memoranda, only 18% of smes apply for a loan, while 38% have increased difficulties in accessing bank loans. in addition, mr hahn, in greece the troika, of which the commission is a member, is forcing the sale of non-performing loans of small and mediumsized enterprises to aggressive funds, with the result that many small and mediumsized enterprises are in danger of being dissolved and their assets sold. what do you think of that, mr. hahn? how does what is happening in greece fit in with what we are discussing here? will you continue this aggressive policy as the troika for the red loans of small and mediumsized enterprises in greece? you have to answer this.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, why in the southern countries with the abundance of light, thousands of people are cold inside their homes? energy poverty, rooted in growing poverty, prevents households from paying for gas, oil or electricity. in greece, the risk of poverty reached 36%. in the european union, some 22 million households suffer from the cold, while more than 40% of their disposable income goes to loans and rent. the meszerics report rightly says that energy poverty is caused by poverty, inequality and unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. unfortunately, the commission's plan for a european pillar of social rights is preparing us for a cold winter with even greater energy poverty. let the european citizens know that.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind, and that the commission is not obliged to take any action to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. the decisions of the troika, in which the commission is also represented, have increased the excise duty on heating oil and thousands of greeks freeze to death every winter. the troika, mrs thyssen, is these days pushing for an increase in vat to 24% on electricity and gas. what do you have to say about all this ? in greece, poverty is harvesting our people. over 40% of the population, because of the memorandum, lives below the poverty line. the troika is demanding further pension cuts. how will millions of pensioners living on less than 800 euros live? as for the minimum guaranteed income, it applies in greece to very few people, when three million greeks live below the poverty line, when the unemployed have reached one and a half million. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must put an end to this double-speaking.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, we are talking today about reducing poverty in the european union, but the reality is that poverty is constantly increasing, due to the economic crisis and the austerity policies being followed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. these gaps are widening over time, as the traditional economic backwardness of the eastern european states is compounded by the increasingly impoverished mediterranean south and large parts of the population in countries such as ireland. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we need an increase in the union budget to finance a european-wide minimum income guarantee scheme by means of a european-wide tax on stock exchange transactions and transfers to so-called tax havens.
the commission mr president, the report continues the european union's strategy in developing countries. a strategy replicating neo-colonial policy, characterized by a utilitarian, a haughty approach that prepares the world for a recipe of development on the model of western europe. but this model is now finally working in europe itself. the only innovation in the report is that the private sector is now playing a leading role in investment, with the risk of losing public control of european companies' activities in third countries altogether. the panama papers have once again demonstrated that multinational companies operate in a way that creates particular problems. their investments in developing countries do not solve the problem of underdevelopment, but rather exacerbate it, while remaining blind, as companies and actions, to the ecological crisis, and also increasing migration flows into the european union to unmanageable levels.
the commission the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union, and that the council has been involved in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. however, this did not seem to interest europe much. when the european union fails to manage the displaced people of the syrian civil war, who are once twenty million, you can understand what will happen if pakistan, with its two hundred million inhabitants, is destabilised. the possibility of a general destabilisation of the middle east and central asia must be avoided at all costs. first of all, we must stop foreign military interventions. the european union must also make a serious effort to ensure that the european union does not become a victim of the terrorist attacks of the last few years. finally, all efforts to overcome religious hatred and the rhetoric of cultural conflict in good faith should be supported.
the commission madam president, in a country like honduras, with 22% illiteracy in rural areas and with two thirds of its population living below the poverty line, human rights violations are, even today, a daily occurrence. since the 2009 coup against zelaya, rights violations and the climate of impunity have continued to grow in the country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. in particular, the murder of activist berta cáceres, who was a member of the popular opposition and a defender of human rights in the country. the european union should therefore immediately take action to stop the suppression of human rights in honduras, and contribute to the investigation, to punish those responsible for the murder of berta cáceres and to stop the persecution of activists.
the commission madam president, despite the fact that nigeria is a rich country with wealth-producing resources such as oil and huge income, its population lives in poverty, while the corruption and lack of democracy prevailing in the country are the fertilizer for terrorism and the growth of boko haram. in the past ten years, boko haram has been responsible for repeated armed attacks and bombings, as well as hundreds of deaths of the nigerian population. of course, despite the denunciations of the un human rights council, boko haram continues, even today, to carry out attacks and killings against the nigerian people as well as kidnapping children. it is therefore necessary for the european union to urge the nigerian authorities to combat the causes of the strengthening of boko haram, such as underdevelopment, corruption and the squandering of oil revenues, and to put pressure on the nigerian government to finally stop the violation of rights in this area.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i was in favour of this report on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, as it contains important legislation on labour matters. this regulation allows member states to provide a higher level of protection of the rights and freedoms of workers with regard to their personal data.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the general objective of the agreement is to ensure a high level of protection of personal data in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences. it is, however, contrary to the general principles of the protection of personal data. the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not exchange information. the agreement does not effectively enhance the risk-based approach, nor does it ensure its obligation, by design and by default, to protect data. moreover, the provision of harmonised criteria, conditions and limitations is contrary to the provision in the agreement to include private entities in the concept of 'competent authorities'. in conclusion, cooperation is practically impossible, given the simple example of the german authorities' failure to extradite christophorus to greece for investigation into the siemens scandal. for all these reasons, i vote against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing directive 95/46/ec, because it is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the package of legislation voted in the european parliament under the false title of 'protection of personal data' legitimises the generalized package of everything under the banner of eu legislation. it provides for an exception to any protection if it is 'necessary and proportionate in a democratic society to prevent the impeding of investigations, to prevent and detect criminal offences, to protect public policy, national security or the rights of third parties'. the exceptions are of such a scope and generality that they essentially reduce the case to a rule. it also allows the collection and exchange of data relating to all political and social action. the rules are that data is transferred and exchanged between the various intelligence and security services, not only of the eu member states but also of third countries and imperialist organisations (usa, nato, etc.). anyone can be targeted by the repressive mechanisms without being suspected of any act, simply for reasons of public order and security! the monopolies and their associations see in the rights and freedoms of the people a danger to their power. that is why their defence is inseparable from the struggle to overthrow them, to bring about radical changes in power and the economy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the proposed regulation replaces directive 95/46/ec, so it has more legal weight, but it basically fills the gaps in the protection of personal data that the directive had. specific and characteristic: 1. the accountability of controllers and processors is strengthened, and penalties are introduced to incentivise controllers to comply with the regulations. 2.codes of conduct and legally binding certification mechanisms are introduced, such as the right to 'write off' (a person who no longer wishes his data to be processed, they are deleted), but also to facilitate users' access to their data. 3. provide enhanced and enforceable rights for citizens, and also provide for prohibitions on the processing of personal data concerning children. 4. most importantly, the independence of supervisory authorities is strengthened so that each national authority can work without interference, as was not the case with the personal data breaches of golden dawn officials during the political persecutions.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the directive on police and criminal authorities refers to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free movement of such data. this legislation is necessary to protect the fundamental rights of individuals, in particular in the light of the latest technological changes, and the completion of the digital market.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the agreement has the general objective of ensuring a high level of protection of personal data in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters for the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, but it undermines the general principles of personal data protection. the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject to either personal will or national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not exchange information. the agreement does not effectively promote the risk-based approach, nor does it ensure the obligation of data protection by design and by default. moreover, the provision of harmonised criteria, conditions and limitations is contrary to the provision in the agreement to include private entities in the concept of 'competent authorities'. in conclusion, cooperation is practically impossible, given the simple example of the german authorities' failure to extradite christophorus to greece for investigation into the siemens scandal. for all these reasons, i vote against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and the repeal of council framework decision 2008/977/jha as it is complete and well founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the package of legislation voted in the european parliament under the false title of 'protection of personal data' legitimises the generalized package of everything under the banner of eu legislation. it provides for an exception to any protection if it is 'necessary and proportionate in a democratic society to prevent the impeding of investigations, to prevent and detect criminal offences, to protect public policy, national security or the rights of third parties'. the exceptions are of such a scope and generality that they essentially reduce the case to a rule. it also allows the collection and exchange of data relating to all political and social action. the rules are that data is transferred and exchanged between the various intelligence and security services, not only of the eu member states but also of third countries and imperialist organisations (usa, nato, etc.). anyone can be targeted by the repressive mechanisms without being suspected of any act, simply for reasons of public order and security! the monopolies and their associations see in the rights and freedoms of the people a danger to their power. that is why their defence is inseparable from the struggle to overthrow them, to bring about radical changes in power and the economy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the agreement has the general objective of ensuring a high level of protection of personal data in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences, but it undermines the general principles of personal data protection. the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of information exchange are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not exchange information. the agreement does not effectively promote the risk-based approach, nor does it ensure the obligation of data protection by design and by default. moreover, the provision of harmonised criteria, conditions and limitations is contrary to the provision in the agreement to include private entities in the concept of 'competent authorities'. in conclusion, cooperation is practically impossible, given the simple example of the german authorities' failure to extradite christophorus to greece for investigation into the siemens scandal.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the compromise reached between the council and parliament on the creation of a common passenger register for international flights to and from member states of the european union. the new register will be able to help the authorities of the member states to identify suspected criminal acts. the european parliament's condition was that it be combined with the legislative package on the protection of personal data, thus ensuring that the storage and processing of passengers' personal data will be carried out within a strict legislative framework, without the risk of infringement of the privacy of european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the vote on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the use of passenger name record (pnr) data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences concerns a particularly sensitive area which we are called upon to manage. i think it is a very wrong approach to propose that the only solution is to collect data on all types of movement, whether personal or non-personal, without any further adequate safeguards, especially when we all know that the continuous production of data cannot be managed effectively or produce the desired results. in this context, the report does not contain the elements which would lay the foundations for a functional and effective response to the risks that exist and that is why i voted against it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the air carriers and non-carrier economic operators already collect and process pnr data, so the directive does not introduce anything new, because criminals and terrorists are not used to using air transport for their travels. the main point is that the obligation to apply a system for the collection of personal data in crossborder road and/or sea transport is not considered, since this would mean the automatic abolition of the schengen acquis, nor does it make it compulsory for member states to exchange data when there is tangible evidence of the existence of persons involved in international crime. in addition, it is important that the results of the processing of pnr data should not be used to deny asylum to suspected or identified criminals or terrorists. the directive leaves gaps in the privacy rights of union citizens and is not in line with the data retention directive. finally, in the sense of a sovereign state, each member state should be able to exclude those minor offences for which, taking into account its respective criminal justice system, the processing of pnr data would not be in accordance with the fundamental principle of proportionality of the tfeu. i voted against all of these.
in writing. ‒ the present report deals with the proposal for a directive that attempts to regulate the use of passenger name record (pnr) data at eu level and to harmonise member states’ policies in this field. i strongly believe it is crucial not to adopt an amplified approach of an eu pnr system that could alienate fundamental rights under the pretext of the recent terrorist attacks. deplorably, as it stands from the report, the pnr proposal does not meet the criteria of proportionality, mostly due to the fact that the personal data can be assessed in a non-targeted way. additionally, the enlargement of the scope of the eu pnr scheme beyond international targeted flights in order to include intra-eu flights will finally lead to the collection of data of everyone flying between eu member states. this fact raises an issue of compliance with the principle of necessity. therefore, i voted against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the second report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the use of passenger name record (pnr) data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 13 april 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the new pnr system, i.e. the records of passengers of air flights within and outside the eu, is enlarging the network of repression of the eu and of the civil governments at the expense of the people. passenger data comprising 19 categories of data will be retained and exchanged by the intelligence services of member states and third countries for at least 5 years. on this basis, passengers will be categorised according to the number and type of trips they make, their frequency, intermediate stations, days spent, financial data, etc. the ground is also being prepared for the subsequent extension of the passenger file system to all modes of transport. the claim by the political representatives of the monopolies that passengers' personal data are protected because after 30 days they will be 'anonymised' and a 'data protection officer' will be appointed is not convincing. the aim of all these repressive mechanisms is to restrict people's freedoms and rights which the monopolies, the eu and governments see as a threat to their power. that is why the popular struggle for their defence and expansion is inextricably linked to the overthrow of the power of capital and the liberation from the shackles of its associations.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the air carriers and non-carrier economic operators already collect and process pnr data, so the directive does not introduce anything new, in the sense that criminals and terrorists are not used to using air transport for their travels. in particular, however, it does not consider the obligation to apply a system for the collection of personal data in crossborder road and/or maritime transport, as this would mean the automatic abolition of the schengen acquis, nor does it make the exchange of data between member states mandatory where there is tangible evidence of the existence of individuals involved in international crime. in addition, it is important to ensure that the results of the processing of pnr data cannot be used to deny asylum to suspected or identified criminals or terrorists. the directive leaves gaps in the right to privacy of union citizens and is not in line with the data retention directive. finally, in the sense of a sovereign state, each member state should be able to exclude those minor offences for which, taking into account its respective criminal justice system, the processing of pnr data would not be in accordance with the fundamental principle of proportionality of the tfeu.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have voted today on the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. it is clear that such reports concern very important issues of sound economic development, which is directly related to transparency within the states, but also to respect for the rights of citizens. i think that this report does not contribute to the adoption of sound control and protection policies for the benefit of citizens and member states. the commission has also failed to protect the interests of employees and has not made any provision for the protection of whistleblowers. i have therefore decided to vote against it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report as i believe that it has all the negative guarantees to act, through article 9 section 2 (temporary and provisional measures), as a vehicle to disrupt, delay and freeze all legitimate commercial and business activities of natural and legal persons who can be characterised as competitors of the alleged infringer. in addition, theft, breach of contract, concession, embezzlement, fraud, etc. are already illegal acts, so we consider this report (besides the many legal loopholes) to be unnecessary and without substance.
ecr), in writing. ‒ referring to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 13 april 2016, i vote in favour of postponing the vote on the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure, in agreement with the rapporteur's proposal.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report we voted on concerns the estimated revenue and expenditure situation of the european parliament for the financial year 2017. in recent years, the choices made at national and community level have not reflected the european idea, since they have always been made to the detriment of citizens, especially the weakest. at the same time, insufficient efforts have been made to provide the necessary funds to deal with unemployment or the refugee problem. the report does not focus on correcting wrong policies and that is why i have chosen to vote against it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the at a time when most member states of the union, such as greece, are in a state of extreme poverty and economic distress, the secretary-general proposes an increase in the budget of the european parliament for revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017, totalling 3,4% compared to the 2016 budget. the increase corresponds to eur 1 900 873 000, and of course it does not take account of the financial constraints facing the member states. for the above reasons, i am voting against report a8-0131/2016.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the estimated revenue and expenditure situation of the european parliament for the financial year 2017, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 13 april 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european parliament resolution on turkey's accession process points out in many places the backsliding in the areas of human rights, the independence of the judiciary and freedom of the press. it also called on the turkish government to cease hostilities in south-eastern turkey, to lift the siege of several towns in the region and to resume peace talks with the kurds. the report also condemns turkey's violation of greek airspace and territorial waters, calls for respect for the religious, ethnic and property rights of the greek minority and for respect for the ecumenical character of the ecumenical patriarchate. although it was not included in the original text, following my intervention and an amendment tabled in the plenary, the failure of turkey to lift the casus belli against greece is also condemned. finally, although there is a separation of the accession process from the recent agreement on refugees, i decided to abstain from the final vote as there was a clear call for the opening of new negotiating chapters despite the deterioration of the general situation in turkey.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report contains a number of positive elements, pointing out the violations of fundamental rights and basic democratic principles in the applicant country of turkey, which document the country's backwardness. however, i think that all this should have been stressed more, given that a semi-authoritarian regime has been imposed in this country, which is increasingly turning towards outright authoritarianism at home and acting as an international agitator abroad. the european union is also committed to the principle of the free movement of persons, and the european union is committed to the principle of the free movement of persons, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. the report does not mention such matters, and i felt morally obliged to vote against it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the resolution is characterized by unprecedented pro-turkish views which are not based on any facts whatsoever. finally, the text expresses views in favour of the dismantling of the republic of cyprus and its replacement by a formation based on racist policies which would circumvent the rights of the greek cypriots and at the same time legitimize the illegal invasion and continued occupation.
in writing. ‒ the report was quite critical of latest in events in turkey, especially concerning democratic rights and freedom. however, the fact that the rapporteur wants to deepen relations with turkey without turkey meeting copenhagen criteria is something that i cannot support. there is still a lot to be done from turkey, before we could say that turkey is respecting all freedoms and rights. this is why i voted abstention.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the 2015 report on turkey for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 13 april 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report recognises turkey as a 'key strategic partner', supporting the eu's imperialist interventions in the south east mediterranean region. the 'routine' recommendations to 'strengthen good neighbourly relations' and to 'end violations of greek air and sea space' are self-deprecating, as the report merely puts them in 'bilateral disputes' with greece, thus giving substance to turkish claims. the individual criticisms of aspects of the intra-bourgeois conflict in turkey cannot hide the fact that the report actually reinforces the aggressiveness of the turkish bourgeoisie, since it: advocates the opening of the accession negotiation chapters, welcomes the dangerous eu-turkey agreement on refugees, welcomes its participation in the imperialist war in syria, 'recognises turkey's legitimate right to fight terrorism' as a pretext for military operations against the kurdish population. the eu is promoting imperialist interventions, exploiting the reactionary, anti-people governments of countries such as turkey. the syriza-anel government, by actively participating in these dangerous plans, is involving our people in incalculable risks of generalized conflict, "graying" and co-management of the aegean under the umbrella of the european union. the people must use their struggle to thwart the plans of the imperialists, the monopolies and their associations.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the turkey is not a european country and any approach by the eu to it must be made with caution and care. it is unacceptable that any contact with turkey should be guided solely by economic criteria and petty political ambitions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in cyprus is not further worsened, and i would like to thank the greek authorities for their cooperation in this matter.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the albania is expressing in the most official way its expansionist aspirations to the detriment of its neighbours. it is deliberately avoiding border controls, which has resulted in drugs, weapons and illegal immigrants pouring into greece. it has been repressing the human rights of the greeks of northern epirus for decades, at an unabated rate. he destroys churches and illegally encroaches on greek orthodox property. in short, there has been no progress in albania, which is something the report avoids mentioning, which is why i am voting against the 2015 report on albania.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i object to the motion for a resolution on the 2015 report on albania for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 13 april 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
s&d), in writing. ‒ as a member of the socialist and democrats political group in the european parliament, i welcome bosnia and herzegovina's application for eu membership, which presents a unique opportunity. the report, which i voted in favour of, encourages the political leadership to continue implementing the reforms and to make the country more functional and efficient on the road to the european union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the text is an insult to democracy, since it describes the referendum as a challenge to cohesion. at the same time, it fails to recognize the historical, religious and cultural institutions that unite serbs with russians by asking the former to reject their history. in general, the whole text is marked by anti-serb sentiments. the most remarkable thing is that it accuses the republic of serbia of allegedly applying the same practices, while when the same - on a larger scale - are applied by turkey, parliament avoids to point it out. that is why i am voting against the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i object to the motion for a resolution on the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 13 april 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report refers to the unacceptably high levels of poverty in the union, which are directly linked to austerity policies and the economic crisis. the commission and the member states are called upon to do more to tackle poverty, such as the creation of a european energy observatory, the suspension of heating cuts for households in dire economic straits and provision for a minimum income above 60% of the average national income of all member states. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the attainment of the poverty target in view of the increasing expenditure of households. although the fight against poverty is a top priority for our movement, i strongly disagree with the union's approach to the proposed solutions and do not believe that these actions will achieve results. the european union is not prepared to accept and implement a more radical approach.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i would also point out that in order to combat poverty and social exclusion in europe, the policy of merkel's austerity must be abandoned and the european minimum income, the european minimum wage and the european unemployment benefit introduced. i would also like to say that i support the report on the attainment of the poverty target in the light of the increasing expenditure of households.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the private sector and development, as it is not possible for the union to want to achieve growth in third countries and to allocate funds for this, at the same time as member states are literally one step away from disaster and millions of european citizens are below the poverty line.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i oppose the report on the private sector and development for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14 april 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pirinski, for his report and, in reply to mr moscovici and mr hoyer, to say that the main idea of our committee's opinion is that we urgently need more investment and a shift towards sustainable development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external relations are not affected by the crisis in the balkans, and i would like to thank the commissioner for his work in this area. the persistence of blind doctrinal austerity is harmful to the economy and democracy, but also to social and regional cohesion, and we need more effective and combined action from the european investment bank, the so-called juncker fund, private capital and the structural funds, to have a stronger growth drive, and, mr moscovici, the last thing europe needs at the moment is instability or destabilisation in greece. i therefore call on you and on the commission to play a more active role so that the unrealistic demands of the imf and the international monetary fund, which threaten to destabilise the south-eastern tip of europe, do not allow us to relive the adventure of last summer.
the commission madam president, the role of the eib, the european investment bank, is to finance projects to stimulate growth and employment in the member states of the union. in 2014, the eib financed 285 000 smes, safeguarding 3,6 million jobs, by signing contracts for 413 projects within the union. moreover, under the climate action objective, it financed 84 environmental projects, and the ecb has already bought eib bonds on the secondary market, with a view to quantitative easing, thus enhancing the eib's liquidity. but that's not enough. the european union must be able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries of central and eastern europe, and the european union must be able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries of central and eastern europe, and the european union must be able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries of central and eastern europe.
the commission madam president, commissioner moscovici, president hoyer, more than half of the european investment bank's financing goes to just four of the 28 countries of the european union: spain, italy, france and germany. at the same time, the level of funding in my country, greece - which is in a programme - has been cut in half over the last ten years. greece is, commissioner moscovici, among those 'under consideration'. the question is simple: how easy is it for a small or mediumsized enterprise to ask for money from the european investment bank? very difficult, is the answer. it is well known that the greek economy is at high risk. how will the european investment bank manage to mitigate this risk? the juncker plan, for example, guarantees risk and can be an answer for smes. the commission also notes that the bank's capital needs are not reflected in the capital needs of the bank, but rather in the capital needs of the bank. but a lot has changed since then. now more than ever, greece needs a cash injection. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a welcome one. it is a great need and we must make it easier for greek businesses to invest. we must reduce the impact of the crisis on the private sector and that is why we must take special care, through the european investment bank, of countries in programmes.
gue/ngl), in writing. we have discussed today the annual report on the european investment bank for 2014. it is indeed surprising that, at a time when the economic crisis has exacerbated social and economic inequalities and existing disparities between member states, the european investment bank has chosen to channel 59.4% of all project finance into the five largest eu economies, while the other 23 member states' share was only 30.3%. in particular, for greece, the country most affected by the economic crisis, eib financing for the same period amounted to only 1.2% of total lending. even more paradoxical is the fact that turkey currently ranks first among non-eu eib beneficiary countries, absorbing some 3.5% of total eib loans, which is an indirect reward for the authoritarian erdogan regime, which relentlessly violates human rights at home and acts as an international agitator abroad. the european investment bank must re-orient its priorities if it is to fulfil its crucial development mission.
the commission madam president, the role and mission of the centre for disease prevention and control is important and commendable and its activities should be funded. but i have the following questions: has anyone informed the centre of the unacceptable and tragic situation in the health sector in greece, as a result of the inhumane measures imposed by the memorandum, and by the european union, on the greek people for the past six years? does anyone know that health care in greece is almost non-existent because of the lack of money in the health sector because of austerity measures? are you aware that every week hospital directors, in consultation with doctors, decide which treatments to cut? do you know that money is not being spent on drugs to treat dangerous diseases, resulting in the death of helpless patients? are you aware that suppliers of healthcare supplies have cut back on deliveries, resulting in clinics facing shortages of essential supplies and patients suffering? are you aware that there are restrictions on the food that is given to the hospitals? you know that those who have no money are condemned to death ? are you aware that the mortality rate in greece has increased to a very great extent? does greece have more flu deaths than any other country in the european union? most children are unvaccinated; there's been a dramatic increase in infant mortality and premature births, and babies are dying because of the lack of proper care. what is the european union doing about all this to prevent this genocide of the greeks? nothing more than tolerating turkey sending hundreds of illegal immigrants who carry dangerous diseases that have, for many years, been forgotten.
the commission madam president, enisa is the only decentralised european union agency located in greece, which has spent millions of euros to support its operation. mrs georgieva, enisa has a state-of-the-art office of 4,500 sq m in heraklion, crete. unfortunately, however, only ten people are employed in these offices, since the agency's operational centre has been moved to athens, despite the fact that the greek authorities have implemented all the commitments they had made for the operation of enisa in heraklion. unfortunately, on 16 march the parliament's committee on budgets supported the approach of the enisa administration and in effect opened the way for the agency to be discredited in heraklion. the final objective of the change of enisa's management is to move the headquarters to brussels. since 2012, as a member of parliament for heraklion, i have been fighting with the local authorities to stop the machinations of the enisa leadership, which came here last week to the european parliament in an arrogant tone and mocked the meps. mrs georgieva, please consider the enisa issue seriously.
the commission madam president, in recent months we have unfortunately been discussing repeatedly the violations of fundamental human rights on the battlefields, particularly in the middle east, mainly due to the actions of the daesh jihadists. but last november, the united states admitted to the deadly bombing of a doctors without borders hospital in afghanistan. in yemen, the saudi-led arab coalition has carried out an orgy of violence against the civilian population, with many attacks on hospitals and schools. the double standards adopted today by the european union and the west in general are putting their reputation and credibility at risk. the international organizations have a duty to acknowledge war crimes in yemen, afghanistan, iraq and syria, and elsewhere, by whoever commits them. this should be the first step towards those responsible taking responsibility for their actions, the economic recovery of the damaged countries, but also of the people, as well as the safe and unconditional care of the thousands of refugees they have created.
the commission mr president, we are back to the same play. we are talking about transparency, public access to documents, when we, as meps, can have access to the ttip negotiating documents on the condition of signing for the examination of highly confidential documents. in a room where we're not allowed to take notes or take photos of the documents, when we're not allowed to release the contents of the ttip documents, and all of this when senators in the united states don't have these restrictions, when their aides have access to the ttip documents, when, in addition, 700 experts working for the u.s. senate also have access to the ttip documents, an agreement that president obama is asking to be voted on without delay. a treaty whose negotiation is the depository of secret diplomacy. what transparency are you talking about, ms. jourová? what democracy is the european union talking about when the troika and the memoranda violate national constitutions, european treaties and overturn referendums with no regard for popular sovereignty? the european parliament, as the only institution directly elected by the people, has a duty to take the lead in the democratic struggle for transparency and control of the institutions.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, public access to documents held by the european institutions is of fundamental importance. the confidentiality of documents should be the exception, not the rule. this is apparent both from the provisions of the regulation and from the restrictive interpretation given by the court of justice of the european union to the exceptions provided for therein. however, we very often see the european institutions denying citizens access to their documents, thus undermining the principle of free access. the transatlantic ttip is a typical example, as little information has been made public because of the confidential nature of the documents involved. the european institutions must immediately turn to a common policy on open access to documents in order to strengthen participatory democracy, transparency and accountability towards citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, something is rotten in the kingdom of denmark about protecting children. the complaints to the committee on petitions for the protection of the interests of children in the united kingdom, denmark, germany, are like a storm, whether they concern social services for minors, or adoptions or foster care, custody and visitation rights for parents accused of even sexual abuse, and they are complaints that shock us. many reports have been made on the family crisis in the north, but we are unable to answer what has happened to the 10,000 unaccompanied refugee children who have subsequently disappeared, as europol has reported. i ask you to commit to a comprehensive advocacy of children's rights, with decisions that address not only the family crisis, but also the humanitarian crisis that is plaguing the south and the refugee crisis. and that is not a political, it is a moral obligation.
the commission mr president, as a member of the committee on petitions, i have dealt with hundreds of petitions relating to the protection of children's interests. first, in the area of transnational adoptions, it is necessary to ensure legal certainty in order to protect the rights of parents and children and to comply with the european union legislation on citizenship of the union. moreover, many citizens have expressed concerns about the adoption practices of certain member states of the union, with implications for children and their families when they move to these countries. at the same time, each member state of the union should remove procedural and bureaucratic obstacles to child custody procedures in order to ensure the proper application of the 1993 hague convention. finally, the commission should strengthen dialogue and exchange of best practices between the various parties involved, as well as designate specialised courts to deal with cases of child abduction with cross-border elements and ensure that the return process is effective.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we entrust our homes, our children, our parents, our sick people to our domestic workers and carers. these people, who provide us with the opportunity to pursue our careers and enjoy our social lives, are invisible, unregistered, uninsured, socially excluded and are, above all, women. two and a half million domestic workers in europe, 88% of whom are women, working endless hours without leave, without health insurance, without pensions. they work in conditions that cannot be controlled because there are no proper inspection methods to detect them and protect them where they are needed. our ageing population and the entry of women into the labour market create greater needs for domestic and personal care workers. the member states are aware of this but allow the gaps to be filled through the shadow economy. they reduce public spending and exploit waves of immigrants as new cheap labour to fill such shortages. it needs: - immediate recording of the situation in the member states; - adequate legislation on humane working conditions; - ratification and implementation of the international labour organisation convention 189 on domestic workers, for the collective relief of their needs; - recognition of these services as a professional activity and certification thereof; - adoption of good practice - france and belgium are examples in a different way; - the approach of the trade unions because these workers do not know where to turn; - checks with respect for privacy; - informing workers of their rights and employers of their obligations. i would like to thank in particular tania gonzález peñas, who drafted the opinion for the committee on employment and social affairs, and all the bodies which have helped to raise the issue, for their cooperation. we need their support, especially now, before the vote on the report tomorrow because the conservative side of the european parliament has asked for a separate vote on many important points in the report so that, by voting against them, it will weaken it. if the conservative majority does not want any binding measures, if they do not want the profession to be recognised, if they do not want women workers to have the right to a fixed working time, to health insurance or maternity leave, if they do not want the international labour organisation convention to be ratified, then they should admit that they want unregistered workers without rights. they should clearly state that they lead to the discrimination of citizens into privileged and second-class citizens. to declare that they are not bothered by the exploitation of immigrant women. the european union is facing a social breakdown and is therefore alienating itself from its citizens, and the european parliament has a share of responsibility for this. the question we are discussing today is primarily one of respect for human dignity. anton chekhov wrote to his brother: "civilized people must, in my opinion, meet the following criteria: respect for human beings as individuals... and it's a personal opportunity for each and every one of us to prove who our culture and our respect are.
the commission mr president, after thanking the rapporteur, mrs kuneva, for her report, i would like to point out that women employed as domestic helpers face precarious working conditions on a daily basis, since domestic work is carried out in the form of undeclared work and is not covered by labour legislation. in addition, there is often no social protection and cover for their labour rights, with the result that women's wages in these sectors are low and do not guarantee them a decent standard of living, especially in countries like greece which has been impoverished by the memoranda. in view of the rights of women workers who are being infringed by the economic crisis and the lack of legislation in certain professions, the countries of the european union should recognise the professional rights of women engaged in domestic work and incorporate them into their national legislation. the european union must also stop impoverishing the countries of the south and thus undermining women's rights, both at work and in society.
the commission mr president, empowering women in the digital age and reducing gender inequalities in the field of information technology is more necessary than ever. first, in the member states of the union, we find that only 9% of programmers are women, and only 19% of those working in the field of information and communication technology have female directors, compared with 45% of those working in other sectors. this is of course a result of the significant gender gap in access to career and educational opportunities related to the field of information technology. of course, gender discrimination is also seen in the workplace in general, as wage and pension gaps are quite large, and in countries like greece, which is hit by the memoranda, women are the most affected population group. it is therefore necessary to promote gender equality in the digital economy, to increase the proportion of women in leadership positions and to eliminate any gender pay gap at work.
the commission mr president, as i mentioned in an earlier debate today, the leadership of enisa has for years been working to discredit the agency's activity in heraklion, crete. he therefore pushed for the agency to be split into two centres: an administrative centre in heraklion, which now has ten employees, while the vast majority of the agency's staff work in the operational centre in athens. the aim is to completely divest the agency's operation in heraklion, crete, and subsequently to move enisa's headquarters out of greece. let the leadership of enisa know that we are not going to allow the agency's headquarters to leave heraklion. we will continue our fight together with the local bodies of crete, as we have been doing consistently since 2012, when i was mp for heraklion. the seat of enisa is and will remain crete, whatever the enisa leadership wants, which came here last week to the european parliament in an arrogant tone to mock the meps. that is why i am not going to approve the discharge for enisa tomorrow. three of it immediately before the costs that are introduced website knowledge pain in nadir not while products in yannianna on the course of tokyo are the double connect career you had not gotten up from was the players in the virtue of products that the you are the you are the you and the good devil against you to be in the culture is to turn it is unfair another solution the cashier assad courier in favor of a virtual so to three mitsuo dealt with the box office are intended only because he knows the action while they are preceding the crisis and the most to them before you
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the blue card. madam president, you said that in greece the refugees and migrants do not have enough to eat. that is a lie! the greeks may be starving right now, but the refugees and migrants have food, so much so that they throw it away. but should you look at it from another standpoint? why are these people trapped and why does the european union not take them directly from greece if it needs them, and not from turkey?
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the first condition concerns turkey itself as a strategic partner, and i say this because, so far, it has not proved to be a reliable partner when it violates greece's airspace on a daily basis. just the day before, a diplomatic incident was about to take place when a ship docked off lesvos. it is blackmailing and putting pressure on the european union even when it knows that only 35 of the 72 conditions needed for visa-free travel have been met and, of course, only recently, the turkish prime minister said that if the european union's promises had not been fulfilled by the summer, he would not proceed with the agreement. we must be careful about this at all times, since we are dealing with a strategic partner who is not yet reliable. the second condition, madam president, is that the institution of relocation and resettlement should finally be implemented in the member states which do not agree with our decisions, because we must prove at all times that solidarity and humanity are european values and must be demonstrated in practice.
the commission madam president, we have said many times in this chamber that turkey is part of the problem and not part of the solution in the refugee issue. it's part of the problem because it's arming the daesh jihadists and thereby sustaining the war in syria which is increasing the refugee flows. turkey is part of the problem because it's funding the jihadists, allowing them to smuggle oil through turkey. turkey is part of the problem because it is fuelling the slave trade and sending thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants to the aegean islands. turkey, therefore, continues its blackmail, demanding six billion euros for refugees, as well as visa-free travel for turkish citizens to the european union, flooding its countries with thousands of new immigrants. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all those who have been arrested, including those who have been detained in the country, and for the immediate release of all those who have been arrested. madam president, greece, with over 54,000 refugees and illegal immigrants trapped inside, cannot take it any longer. the european union and turkey must finally start implementing the agreement and start returning illegal migrants from greece to turkey. at the same time, the members of the union must demonstrate their solidarity in practice by implementing the 66.400 relocations of refugees from greece to their territories. mr timmermans, mr abramopoulos' proposal for 6,000 relocations a month must finally be put into practice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the amounts given so far are crumbs.
the commission madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the discussion on progress for turkey, which has proved to be no progress, we are discussing today the legal aspects, democratic control and the implementation of the eu-turkey agreement. but you should have done that before you made a deal. what kind of agreement are we talking about when turkey is taking in fifteen or ten syrian refugees, being turned back from greece, and sending hundreds, every day, to the greek islands, in cooperation with the slave traders? what democracy and what control are you talking about when the president of the turkish national assembly is calling for the revision of the constitution and for turkey to become a theocratic state? by the standards of the islamic caliphate, you mean? erdogan said that these are his personal views, but when anyone who has a different opinion is persecuted in turkey, erdogan himself is being contradicted. turkey is not going to implement anything that was agreed. he's just blackmailing, like with the visa thing, taking advantage of the immigration thing. it continues to question and disregard international law, threatening greece with casus belli, violating greece's airspace on a daily basis, even while the chief of the general staff of the greek national defence was visiting the interrogation units of our greek army for the traditional wishes for the orthodox easter. the european union is not going to be able to do anything about the turkish people, because the turkish people are not going to be able to do anything about the turkish people.
the commission madam president, the agreement between turkey and the european union, and the greek government included, confirms the views of the communist party of greece. it is a miserable market with the victims of refugees, the victims of imperialist interventions, and all the peoples. thousands are trapped, imprisoned now, in closed camps, in miserable conditions. ngos take advantage of their situation and european funds. the fence, the deportations, dublin, schengen, the lock-in in greece, are called, in the eu's asylum policy, 'preventing secondary movements'. that is why you call turkey a 'safe country' and it is crocodile tears for the kurds, but also for the arrests, the persecution of any opposing view. nato is deploying in the aegean exclusively to strengthen turkey in a supporting role to intervene and deter russia. turkey has recently been defending itself against the european union and nato by escalating its violations in the aegean, by graying up its territory and by claiming a share of the territory in syria and iraq the next day. the european union must be able to take action to combat the illegal immigration of refugees and to combat the illegal immigration of people from third countries.
s & d) and the madam president, commissioner, yesterday could have been a good day for the people working on the islands to implement the eu-turkey agreement. because only 212 people have crossed our waters: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but there was another reason it could be a good day: we were expecting a ladder from the 750 people you owe us, based on the agreement; people for easo and translators. these people would have arrived yesterday, one step from the european commission, from the member states. but the ship didn't get 750 people off, only 62: 32 people for easo and 30 translators. and the people who are working to make the deal happen, they say every day now: the member states, the commission, the council are laughing at us. it is not possible to offer people crossing the sea the possibility of having their asylum applications examined, as quickly as possible, in closed detention centres with a limit, and not have europe send us the people it has promised us. it's like you're poisoning the deal yourselves.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the european union-turkey agreement of 18 march includes the prospect of visa liberalization for turkish citizens in europe, with a final decision expected in june. mr erdoğan has already threatened that if this does not happen, he will stop implementing the agreement. however, he continues to avoid fulfilling his obligations which include lifting the visa requirement for citizens of eu member states such as cyprus, activating the resettlement programme and providing temporary protection status for non-syrians. the union must not succumb to blackmail and must not accept the partial and selective application of the agreements. if the erdogan regime does not honour his signature, then we must speak to him in the only language he will understand, that is, the language of political and economic sanctions.
the commission mr president, the numbers are staggering. according to the commission, in four of the five member states with the most liberalised railway market, consumers are dissatisfied with the services provided. in finland, where the public is the most satisfied in the european union with rail services, there is a complete state monopoly. this shows that the liberal policies imposed by the european union on the member states have the effect of degrading services vital to their economies, such as rail transport. the british model cannot be applied at the european union level; the national peculiarities do not allow it. in greece, the only thing the troika of austerity policies is currently doing is to further discredit the greek railways, which is facing tragic staff shortages, while putting a lid on plans to develop a fast and environmentally friendly means of transport such as the railway.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the present report, which i voted in favour of, approves the legislative proposal for the conclusion of a protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the member states of the european union, on the one hand, and georgia, on the other, to take account of the accession of croatia to the union. the council is expected to complete the protocol after obtaining the assent of the european parliament, in accordance with the existing decisions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the eu-georgia common european aviation area agreement (accession of croatia) because the way in which they want to approve the aviation union with third countries, through croatia, is a portal to economic connection with these countries, informally, at a time when the already member states are in trouble.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the this is a mainly technical report on the conclusion of a protocol on the accession of the republic of croatia to the common european aviation area between the european union, its member states and georgia, governed by the agreement of 2 december 2010 on the same subject. the protocol does not provide for any change in the substance of the agreement and that is why i voted against it.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of a protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union, because it is complete and substantiated.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the present report, which i voted in favour of, approves the legislative proposal for the conclusion of a protocol amending the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the member states of the european union, on the one hand, and israel, on the other, to take account of the accession of croatia to the union. the council is expected to conclude the protocol in accordance with the existing decisions, after obtaining the consent of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the eu and israel (accession of croatia to the eu) because the view of israel as an important aviation partner in the mediterranean region does not govern our party's principles regarding priorities in our region.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the this report refers to the protocol amending the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel to allow croatia to become a party thereto. although the protocol is not intended to bring about substantive changes, the crucial importance of this agreement for the southern and eastern mediterranean has led me to abstain.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of a protocol amending the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, because it is complete and substantiated.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report, which i voted in favour of, approves the accession of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 on certain forms of cooperation involving crossborder action to prevent, investigate and prosecute certain infringements of both national law of the member states and community customs legislation. the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament supports croatia's accession to all relevant conventions as the fight against customs infringements is one of its unquestionable objectives.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on mutual assistance and cooperation between the customs services of the state of croatia and the corresponding services of europe is part of a wider framework of organisation and coordination aimed at ensuring smooth cooperation between the two parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs services (accession of the republic of croatia) because consumer protection must be a priority throughout the eu, not only through checks but also through the corresponding penalties in cases of infringements.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs services. the accession of croatia to the european union also entails an improvement in the exchange of information in the context of police cooperation between customs authorities and falls within the scope of the convention.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs services, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the waiver of the immunity of mr piecha concerns matters outside parliamentary activities, namely an offence committed in the member's country and relating to the traffic code. as this is not a prosecution related to his political activities and freedoms, i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i believe that the status of member of the european parliament should not affect the work of justice, nor should it create a caste of persons who are above the law.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr bolesław g. piecha, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this motion for a resolution was tabled in response to the large number of reports received by the european parliament from citizens of different countries on the safeguarding of the best interests of the child in the eu. these reports came from citizens who had encountered an issue due to the practices of child welfare authorities or had experienced a violation of children's rights in one of the eu member states. i voted in favour of this resolution because the protection of children is a basic prerequisite for the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament and is a priority in all policies and legislation adopted at european level.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the safeguarding of the best interests of the child in the eu on the basis of the reports submitted to the european parliament because some procedures concerning children of separated parents and children of troubled parents should be simplified in order to avoid suffering and psychological pressure on them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on safeguarding the best interests of the child in the eu on the basis of the reports to the european parliament, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 27 april 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the establishment of a european pillar of social rights.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which will extend the role of the european railway agency, in line with the directives on interoperability and safety, and also include the addition of new tasks, including the promotion of standardisation. the agency will be able to delegate specific tasks to national safety authorities on the basis of contractual agreements. it also proposes a series of measures to improve the governance of the agency in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest, strengthening the independence of the committees on appeals, evaluation and prioritisation, in order to take account of available resources.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways and repealing regulation (ec) no 881/2004, as i fully agree with it.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways and repealing the regulation, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in brussels on 28 april 2016, and because the report in question is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the so-called 'fourth railway package' completes the liberalisation of rail transport and its handover to business groups. it removes the last obstacles to the interconnection of the rail transport project in the member states. it harmonises each country's frameworks under the eu rail agency the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the issue of eu safety certificates, rather than those issued by the member states. health and safety regulations for workers and passengers will worsen, as will the conditions for intensified work, for the profitability of businesses by invoking the reduction of administrative costs, while ticket prices for the people will become even more expensive. the commission has also taken the view that the aid granted to the railway undertakings in the form of a loan, which is not covered by the second and third tranches of the second tranches, is compatible with the internal market. the only way out is to fight against monopolies, to put obstacles in the way of privatization, dismissals, the infringement of rights. on this road the satisfaction of the workers' popular demands for public railway transport, quality, cheap and safe, with guaranteed labour and wage rights of workers in the sector, is linked to the people's struggle for the overthrow of the power of the monopolies and the liberation from the eu.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the so-called 'fourth railway package' completes the liberalisation of rail transport and its handover to business groups. it removes the last obstacles to the interconnection of the rail transport project in the member states. it harmonises each country's frameworks under the eu rail agency the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the issue of eu safety certificates, rather than those issued by the member states. health and safety regulations for workers and passengers will worsen, as will the conditions for intensified work, for the profitability of businesses by invoking the reduction of administrative costs, while ticket prices for the people will become even more expensive. these accelerate what was already being done under the 'third package', which completed the fragmentation of the rail transport project, separating the infrastructure network that remained in the state from the profitable transport project handed over to the business groups. the only way out is to fight against monopolies, to put obstacles in the way of privatization, dismissals, the infringement of rights. on this road the satisfaction of the workers' popular demands for public railway transport, quality, cheap and safe, with guaranteed labour and wage rights of workers in the sector, is linked to the people's struggle for the overthrow of the power of the monopolies and the liberation from the eu.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this is the second reading of this report on the interoperability of the eu rail system. the main objective of the report is to upgrade and improve interoperability rules to meet new needs by clarifying existing rules, simplifying time-consuming and costly authorisations for rolling stock, energy and infrastructure, and ensuring vehicle interoperability in the eu through a european vehicle licence to be granted by the european railway agency and the creation of a european register. i voted in favour of the council's position as it is fully in line with the agreement reached on 17 june 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union, as i am in favour of financial and administrative checks.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in brussels on 28 april 2016, and because the report in question is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the so-called 'fourth railway package' completes the liberalisation of rail transport and its handover to business groups. it removes the last obstacles to the interconnection of the rail transport project in the member states. it harmonises each country's frameworks under the eu rail agency the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the issue of eu safety certificates, rather than those issued by the member states. health and safety regulations for workers and passengers will worsen, as will the conditions for intensified work, for the profitability of businesses by invoking the reduction of administrative costs, while ticket prices for the people will become even more expensive. these accelerate what was already being done under the 'third package', which completed the fragmentation of the rail transport project, separating the infrastructure network that remained in the state from the profitable transport project handed over to the business groups. the only way out is to fight against monopolies, to put obstacles in the way of privatization, dismissals, the infringement of rights. on this road the satisfaction of the workers' popular demands for public railway transport, quality, cheap and safe, with guaranteed labour and wage rights of workers in the sector, is linked to the people's struggle for the overthrow of the power of the monopolies and the liberation from the eu.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the so-called 'fourth railway package' completes the liberalisation of rail transport and its handover to business groups. it removes the last obstacles to the interconnection of the rail transport project in the member states. it harmonises each country's frameworks under the eu rail agency the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the issue of eu safety certificates, rather than those issued by the member states. health and safety regulations for workers and passengers will worsen, as will the conditions for intensified work, for the profitability of businesses by invoking the reduction of administrative costs, while ticket prices for the people will become even more expensive. these accelerate what was already being done under the 'third package', which completed the fragmentation of the rail transport project, separating the infrastructure network that remained in the state from the profitable transport project handed over to the business groups. the only way out is to fight against monopolies, to put obstacles in the way of privatization, dismissals, the infringement of rights. on this road the satisfaction of the workers' popular demands for public railway transport, quality, cheap and safe, with guaranteed labour and wage rights of workers in the sector, is linked to the people's struggle for the overthrow of the power of the monopolies and the liberation from the eu.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this is the second reading of this report on railway safety in the european union. the main provisions of this report concern railway safety supervision and more specifically the way in which it is distributed between national and european bodies. the aim of this legislation is to ensure that national rules do not infringe existing european rules and do not create technical barriers to market access. i voted in favour of the council's position on this report as it is fully in line with the agreement reached on 17 june 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the draft recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on railway safety (recast) as more coordination between member states is needed on safety matters.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on railway safety, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in brussels on 28 april 2016, and because the report in question is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the so-called 'fourth railway package' completes the liberalisation of rail transport and its handover to business groups. it removes the last obstacles to the interconnection of the rail transport project in the member states. it harmonises the frameworks of each country under the eu railway agency which will also issue eu safety certificates bypassing those of the member states. health and safety regulations for workers and passengers will worsen, as will the conditions for intensified work, for the profitability of businesses by invoking the reduction of administrative costs, while ticket prices for the people will become even more expensive. these accelerate what was already being done under the 'third package', which completed the fragmentation of the rail transport project, separating the infrastructure network that remained in the state from the profitable transport project handed over to the business groups. the only way out is to fight against monopolies, to put obstacles in the way of privatization, dismissals, the infringement of rights. on this road the satisfaction of the workers' popular demands for public railway transport, quality, cheap and safe, with guaranteed labour and wage rights of workers in the sector, is linked to the people's struggle for the overthrow of the power of the monopolies and the liberation from the eu.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the so-called 'fourth railway package' completes the liberalisation of rail transport and its handover to business groups. it removes the last obstacles to the interconnection of the rail transport project in the member states. it harmonises each country's frameworks under the eu rail agency the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the issue of eu safety certificates, rather than those issued by the member states. health and safety regulations for workers and passengers will worsen, as will the conditions for intensified work, for the profitability of businesses by invoking the reduction of administrative costs, while ticket prices for the people will become even more expensive. these accelerate what was already being done under the 'third package', which completed the fragmentation of the rail transport project, separating the infrastructure network that remained in the state from the profitable transport project handed over to the business groups. the only way out is to fight against monopolies, to put obstacles in the way of privatization, dismissals, the infringement of rights. on this road the satisfaction of the workers' popular demands for public railway transport, quality, cheap and safe, with guaranteed labour and wage rights of workers in the sector, is linked to the people's struggle for the overthrow of the power of the monopolies and the liberation from the eu.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report examines the establishment of a regulatory framework for indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts and form the basis of some retail services such as mortgages and loans. the text reached after the tripartite dialogue ensures the existence of a framework aimed at ensuring the principle of proportionality by imposing different conditions for each of the three categories of evaluation criteria: decisive, significant and non-significant. i personally voted in favour of this report, supporting the text which emerged from the trialogue.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the pricing of many financial instruments and contracts depends on the accuracy and integrity of benchmarks, which are subject to conflicts of interest and to systems of discretion and poor governance, which are vulnerable to counterfeiting. the third example is deutsche bank, which was fined for manipulating the libor benchmark, thus illegally earning hundreds of billions of euros at the expense of borrowers. these indicators undermine market confidence and as a result cause losses to consumers and investors. they contribute to the fragmentation of the internal market, have a serious impact on financial stability and the real economy, strangle national economies, act, under the cover of union law, as a lever for the pressure and constraint on national banking institutions and do not fully ensure the integrity and transparency of the market or economic reality, and cannot act as potential destabilising factors for the internal market and national financial activities. i therefore vote against this report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the indices are used as a reference for financial instruments and financial contracts. in recent times, the indices have been criticized because banks have often falsified them. the report aims to put a legal framework on market abuse. i voted against the report because i think that the report does not sufficiently exclude the falsification of indicators from the market.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts, because it is not complete and well documented.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted against the above report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for 2014, which refers to the european commission and other executive agencies, as, unlike the previous year, it is less controversial in terms of referring to member states that have not achieved their targets and is characterised by a spirit of constructive approach and highlighting the successes and results of the implementation of the budget of the european union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, concerning the european commission and the executive agencies, constitutes a standard procedure for the discussion and decision-making on decisions taken and actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the commission and the implementing agencies should clarify, clarify and provide appropriate and acceptable answers to the outstanding issues of 2014. i am voting against the report and i believe that immediate solutions must be found to the problems which have brought many member states to the brink of total disaster.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agencies concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii commission and executive agencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the 2014 discharge for the european commission. the report gives an in-depth analysis of the achievement of specific areas of funding programmes and provides important details on the management of specific areas of action such as the evaluation of europeaids, fisheries partnership agreements, the eu youth guarantee and its first steps, the supervision of credit rating agencies.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the vote on the special reports of the court of auditors under the discharge for the year 2014 for the european commission is a standard procedure of assessment of decisions taken and actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. as there were no issues which could lead to the rejection of the manipulations carried out or other related problems, i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report because, among other things, only 23 of the 44 recommendations of the court of auditors concerning sensitive areas (social policy, external relations, etc.) have been implemented.
ecr), in writing. ‒ for reasons of lack of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence regarding the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the special reports of the court of auditors in the context of the 2014 discharge for the european commission.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of granting a discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. however, i voted against the political resolution accompanying the discharge, as it is the position of our political group that the european development fund is a tool to strengthen cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific countries with a view to reducing and eventually eradicating poverty in those countries and that the use of the fund should not be confused with other union issues such as the refugee crisis. the resolution also contains phrases and elements from informal documents of the committee on budgetary control which were never formally adopted by the commission.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report because the court of auditors has found: (a) that the error rate for edf expenditure has been increasing steadily over the last three years, from 3,0% in 2012 to 3,8% in 2014, and (b) that the commission had sufficient information to be able to prevent, detect and correct quantifiable errors before taking clearance and clearance decisions, which would result in an error rate of 2,3 percentage points lower and therefore below the 2% materiality threshold; notes that the majority of errors are due to non-compliance with public procurement rules;
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which focuses mainly on the campaign for the election of the president of the european commission, and in which we, as the group of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament, have succeeded in introducing the reality of the 2014 election campaign, namely the multitude of candidates for the post of president of the european commission. as regards the compensation of overheads, this report stresses the need for greater transparency and more precise rules on the costs included in these compensations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by parliament is a standard procedure in respect of decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report as it does not provide the necessary information for parliament to be able to take an informed decision on certain aspects of its discharge. in addition, substantial answers are still pending on the communication of financial data which would give a fuller and clearer picture of budget implementation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the general budget discharge for the european parliament for 2014. the european parliament should not, however, use the financial resources for political and economic campaigning. i also believe that transparency in the use of the ep budget should be improved.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section i european parliament.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the council continues to refuse to cooperate with the european parliament on the issue of discharge. for this reason, i voted in favour of the proposal of the committee on budgetary control to postpone the discharge decision for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, by the european council and the council, constitutes a standard procedure as regards decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i vote against the postponement of the discharge decision. not all the actions required for the closure of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council, have been completed.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the discharge because i agree with the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, and in particular for the court of justice of the european union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge to be given to the court of justice of the european union in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure as regards the decisions taken and the actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report as the information provided on the financial figures of section iv court does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
ecr), in writing. ‒ for reasons of lack of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iv court of justice.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, and in particular to grant a discharge to the court of auditors.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge to be given to the court of auditors in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure as regards the decisions taken and the actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report as the information provided on the financial figures of section v court of auditors does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence of the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section v court of auditors.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, and in particular to grant a discharge to the european economic and social committee.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european economic and social committee in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 shall constitute a standard procedure in respect of decisions taken and actions taken in the context of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report as the information provided on the financial figures of section vi european economic and social committee does not justify the discharge to be given to that institution in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vi european economic and social committee.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, and in particular to grant a discharge to the committee of the regions.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge to be given to the committee of the regions in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure as regards the decisions taken and the actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report as the information provided on the financial figures of section vii committee of the regions does not justify the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vii committee of the regions.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european external action service in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of section x (european external action service) of the european union for the financial year 2014, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge of the corresponding service and i therefore vote against the report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section x european external action service.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, and in particular in respect of the european ombudsman.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report as the information provided on the financial figures of section viii european ombudsman does not justify his discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section viii european ombudsman.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, and the european data protection supervisor.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european data protection supervisor in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report as the information provided on the financial figures of title ix european data protection supervisor does not justify his discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ix european data protection supervisor.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union institutions for the financial year 2014 concerning their performance, financial management and control, as they are an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, they have a strong network and their work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, as regards the performance, financial management and control of the european union bodies, constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report as it provides for exemption without abolishing the double seats held by certain organisations, which causes additional unjustified costs without adding any value at operational level.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient data on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agencies concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union bodies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report as the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board, the chairs, vice-chairs and heads of the working groups of the energy regulators cooperation organisation have not been published in full.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the regulatory authorities for electronic communications for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by the agency for the regulatory authorities for electronic communications constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report as the union institutions and bodies which have established codes of conduct, including the european parliament, do not publish declarations of financial interests;
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by the translation centre for the bodies of the european union constitutes a standard procedure with regard to the decisions taken and the action taken in the context of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report as no updated data on wages, deposits and surpluses has been made public.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by the european centre for the development of vocational training constitutes a standard procedure for the discussion and decision-making on decisions taken and actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am against the report as the risk management plan (rmp) shows that there is a risk that the centre will not be able to cope with unforeseen external demands from stakeholders.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by the european police college is a standard procedure as regards the decisions taken and the actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014 as the financial data reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, in order to accept the discharge for the financial year 2014.
ecr), in writing. ‒ for reasons of lack of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence regarding the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european aviation safety agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard debate and decision-making process with regard to the decisions taken and the actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014, as the financial data reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to allow the discharge to be accepted for the financial year 2014.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european asylum support office in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014 as the financial data reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to allow the discharge for the financial year 2014.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge to be given to the european banking authority in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure as regards the decisions taken and the actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report as the information provided on the financial size of the european banking authority (eba) does not justify the discharge to be given to the authority concerned in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european centre for disease prevention and control in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure for the discussion and decision-making on decisions taken and actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european chemicals agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to the decisions taken and the actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget of the agency concerned under voting, i am voting against the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european fisheries control agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european institute for gender equality in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to the decisions taken and the actions taken in the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by the european institute of innovation and technology constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014, because i consider it inconceivable for a serious institute to decide to second its director to a long-term research mission for eleven months and at the same time suffer from a lack of clarity!
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence of the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to the decisions taken and the action taken in the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014, as the european medicines agency can easily be described as one of perhaps the most corrupt agencies in europe. most of its funding comes from the very companies it purportedly controls, and its actions seem to demonstrate that it is acting in the interests of those companies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'pre-approval' to cover all medicinal products. finally, i could not in any case approve the allocation of eur 15 million to consultancy services.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to the decisions taken and the action taken in the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014, as the declarations of interests of the centre's director and senior management have not been made public. in addition, the centre's internal control standards need to be improved.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european maritime safety agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014, as i do not consider that i can give my consent to a discharge, since the declarations of interests of the executive director, the members of the management board and the senior management of the agency have not been made public.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i agree and that is why i voted in favour of the decision of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency (enisa), which is based in heraklion, crete. i voted against the resolution accompanying this resolution, however, because it contained proposals which endangered the agency's presence in heraklion, essentially proposing its complete transfer to athens, without taking into account the efforts of the greek government and the local community of heraklion to provide the necessary logistical infrastructure.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european railway agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure for discussion and decision-making concerning decisions taken and actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2014, as the financial data provided are adequate and are accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european railway agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure for discussion and decision-making concerning decisions taken and actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014, as we cannot grant a discharge to an agency which, apart from the fact that it has not yet published all declarations of conflicts of interest, also creates additional costs through its poor management.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency; (b) sound documentation; (c) reliability; (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european securities and markets authority in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014, as the authority has repeatedly been subject to mismanagement and has exceeded its institutional role. furthermore, it did not always follow standard procedures regarding its procurement.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european training foundation in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014, as we cannot give a discharge to an institution which is required to 'ensure that its staff are aware of dealing with conflicts of interest'. the wording itself indicates that a conflict of interest is involved.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014, as the financial data reported must be sufficient and accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations in order for the discharge to be accepted for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european agency for safety and health at work in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014, as the wording of the text is inadequate and leaves many points without proper justification. in any case, the agency's financial figures, as far as we can tell, seem to be correct.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the euratom supply agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014, as it does not provide sufficient data.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for 2014. unfortunately, the foundation has many weaknesses in its way of functioning and therefore cannot be financed with european taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by the european union judicial cooperation unit constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) for the financial year 2014, as the financial data reported must be sufficient and accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations in order for the discharge for the financial year 2014 to be accepted.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency; (b) sound documentation; (c) reliability; (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge to be given to the european police office in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure as regards the decisions taken and the actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2014, as the financial data reported must be sufficient and accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations in order for the discharge for the financial year 2014 to be accepted.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge to be given to the european union agency for fundamental rights in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure as regards the decisions taken and the actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014, as the financial data reported must be sufficient and accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations in order for the discharge for the financial year 2014 to be accepted.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget of the agency concerned under voting, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fundamental rights agency of the european union for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014, as the financial data reported must be sufficient and accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations in order for the discharge for the financial year 2014 to be accepted
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for the global navigation satellite system for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level. in addition, it has a strong network and its work in various fields is a clear advantage for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european supervisory authority in respect of the implementation of the global navigation satellite system in respect of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european gnss global navigation satellite system for the financial year 2014, as the financial data reported must be sufficient and accompanied by actions to rectify previous observations in order for the discharge for the financial year 2014 to be accepted.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european supervisory authority for the global navigation satellite system (gnss) for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis integrated computer systems for the financial year 2014, because in the context of the joint undertakings industry is linked to research in support of new technologies. in addition, the report includes a number of actions to bring specialised technologies to the market.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 in respect of integrated computer systems constitutes a standard procedure for the discussion and decision-making on decisions taken and actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis integrated computer systems for the financial year 2014, as no discharge can be granted when the court of auditors states that it has doubts about the legality of certain acts of the joint undertaking.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the discharge because i agree with the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis integrated computer systems for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because in the context of the joint undertakings industry is linked to research to support new technologies. in addition, the report includes a number of actions to bring specialised technologies to the market.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by the clean sky joint undertaking constitutes a standard procedure with regard to the decisions taken and the actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as the financial data reported must be sufficient and accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations in order for the discharge for the financial year 2014 to be accepted.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence regarding the implementation of the budget under voting of the joint undertaking concerned, i am voting against the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) for the financial year 2014, because, within the joint undertakings, industry is linked to research to support new technologies. in addition, the report includes a number of actions to bring specialised technologies to the market.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) for the financial year 2014, as i do not agree with the discharge, when the resolution itself states that the information given to us is often incomplete.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the joint undertaking concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 because, within the joint undertakings, industry is linked to research in support of new technologies. in addition, the report includes a number of actions to bring specialised technologies to the market.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by the eniac joint undertaking constitutes a standard procedure for the discussion and decision-making on the decisions taken and the actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because i do not agree with the discharge being granted when the court of auditors expresses reservations about the legality of the transactions in question.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the discharge because i agree with the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because within the joint undertakings industry is linked to research to support new technologies. in addition, the report includes a number of actions to bring specialised technologies to the market.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to the decisions taken and the actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as we are not provided with sufficient information to consent to the discharge. moreover, the 2% error rate mentioned in the report may seem small, but it corresponds to millions of euros.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence regarding the implementation of the budget under voting of the joint undertaking concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (formerly the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines) for the financial year 2014, because in the context of joint undertakings industry is linked to research to support new technologies. the report also includes a number of measures to bring specialised technologies to the market.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (formerly the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines) for the financial year 2014, because, although overall the results of this joint undertaking are satisfactory, there is a lack of information regarding contributions in cash or in kind.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting for the joint technology initiative concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (formerly the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion for the financial year 2014, because in the context of joint undertakings industry is linked to research to support new technologies. in addition, the report includes a number of actions to bring specialised technologies to the market.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the discharge report of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure in respect of decisions taken and actions taken in relation to the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion for the financial year 2014, as it is right that the decision to postpone the discharge has been taken, there have been irregularities, poor organisation and appalling budgetary overruns.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the discharge because i agree with the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because within the joint undertakings industry is linked to research in support of new technologies. in addition, the report includes a number of actions to bring specialised technologies to the market.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 shall constitute a standard procedure with regard to the decisions taken and the action taken in the management of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as the joint undertaking does not operate under a regime of full transparency and there are too many problems of reliability with the information it has provided us.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence regarding the implementation of the budget under voting of the joint undertaking concerned, i am voting against the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the 2014 annual report of the european investment bank as it sends clear messages to the bank, among other things, to ensure coherence and complementarity with the investments of the structural and other funds, to develop the appropriate strategy to manage refugee flows, to promote youth employment, innovation and smes, and to enhance environmental sustainability and action against climate change.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european investment bank is the largest foreign financial institution in turkey and, following the opening of accession negotiations in 2004, the eib has stepped up its lending operations in the country over the past decade, with some eur 23 billion in turkey. despite the persistent economic crisis in the eu, turkey currently ranks first among eib beneficiary countries outside the eu, absorbing around 3,5% of total eib loans (2015). · for the above reasons, i am voting against the report on the european investment bank (eib) annual report 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which contains the evaluation of the report of the european investment bank (eib) for the year 2014. the rapporteur presents the main theoretical objectives set by the eib, such as prioritising investment to accelerate recovery, promoting youth employment, innovation and smes, and economic and social cohesion and convergence, etc. however, it also points out that there are significant problems arising from the use, in many cases, of eib financing to support economically unsustainable infrastructure projects, in relation to public interest and environmental measures. the eib is therefore invited to make a number of interesting recommendations, in particular to update its activities and support investment needs in urban, health, education and social infrastructure, as well as the need for closer cooperation between the eib, national development institutions and the eu.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the european investment bank (eib) annual report 2014, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 27 april 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the attacks on school and hospital workers providing humanitarian aid have increased dramatically in recent times. in this context, the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on human rights have asked the council and the high representative by this oral question to inform them on the way in which the relevant council bodies have implemented the eu guidelines on promoting compliance with international humanitarian law in relation to the conflict in syria, yemen, afghanistan and other areas of armed conflict. i personally voted in favour of the oral question on this issue alongside the socialist and democratic group in the ep as well as three amendments by the gue political group on sexual and reproductive health and the right of women to have access to safe abortion to avoid maternal mortality.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of international humanitarian law, because the motion for a resolution, although it has many positive elements, is once again involved in neo-colonial logic. it also emphasises the role of ngos, which have proven to serve political and economic interests.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of international humanitarian law, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 27 april 2016, and because the report is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on public access to documents (rule 116 (7)) for the period 2014-2015, because the council and the european commission need to work together with the european parliament to make it easier to revise community law on access to documents.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on public access to documents under article 116 (7) of the regulation for the period 2014-2015 is a matter of great importance to european society. the ability of citizens to maintain access to public records is an expression of transparency and legality. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the full transparency is the basis of citizens' trust in the union's institutions. citizens should be able to know the actions of their representatives from the moment they are elected or appointed to public office, the decision-making process (including documents circulated, persons involved, votes on them, etc.) and the way public resources are allocated and spent and the results achieved. for the reasons set out above, i am voting in favour of the report on public access to documents (rule 116 (7)) for the period 2014-2015.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the article 17 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament expressly states that each institution must publish the texts of the previous year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i voted in favour of public access to documents for the 2014-15 period, as well as in favour of amendments that want to establish a mandatory register for lobbyists.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on public access to documents for 2014 and 2015 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in brussels on 27 april 2016 and because the report is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report on public access to documents is characterized by the well-known exorbitant emphasis on the public's right to information, while it is deliberately characterized by a number of vague exceptions which ultimately cancel out any access to documents. the proposals for 'appointment of a commissioner responsible for the subject' or 'publication of documents relating to the legislative procedure' are perverse. they conceal that as long as the monopolies, eu and governments are in power, either by "secret" or "open" documents, they will legislate in the interests of the bourgeoisie, while the people will suffer from anti-people politics. the provision for a 'mandatory register of special interest groups' which effectively legalises the well-known 'lobbies'. in the name of transparency, this facilitates the unhindered involvement of business interests in the decisions taken, including those of the european parliament. the demands for 'combating leakage' are backed up by the attempts of monopolies to dominate at the expense of other competitors. the report concludes by stating that it expects 'more active participation of citizens in the decision-making process', but the truth is that only when workers take the keys of the economy into their own hands, conquer political power, will they decide for themselves their future.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report on 'public access to documents' is characterised by the well-known exorbitant emphasis on the public's right to information, while deliberately being characterised by a number of vague exceptions which ultimately cancel out any access to documents. the proposals for 'appointment of a commissioner responsible for the subject' or 'publication of documents relating to the legislative procedure' are perverse. they conceal that as long as the monopolies, eu and governments are in power, either by "secret" or "open" documents, they will legislate in the interests of the bourgeoisie, while the people will suffer from anti-people politics. the provision for a 'mandatory register of special interest groups' effectively legitimises the well-known 'lobbies'. in the name of transparency, this facilitates the unhindered involvement of business interests in the decisions taken, including those of the european parliament. the demands for 'combating leakage' are backed up by the attempts of monopolies to dominate at the expense of other competitors. the report concludes by stating that it expects 'more active participation of citizens in the decision-making process', but the truth is that only when workers take the keys of the economy into their own hands, conquer political power, will they decide for themselves their future.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on women employed as domestic helpers and dependent care workers in the eu, which refers to the ratification of the ilo convention on domestic helpers, and the call for the enforcement of health and safety at work and labour rights for domestic helpers, as well as cases, other than undeclared work, for both eu and non-eu citizens. we have introduced the framework for the formal recognition of paid internal assistants and the protection of domestic workers in diplomatic missions. we also supported the european commission in proposing a directive which would include a legal instrument incorporating rights for carers.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on women employed as domestic helpers and carers in the eu is clearly about social and individual rights, which we are aiming to safeguard. i therefore think we should support it and make its message known. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on women employed as domestic helpers and carers in the eu, as the report, which should be about workers' rights, ended up talking about illegal immigrants and patriarchal society!
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is an important step towards a more adequate framework for certain specific categories of domestic work which are predominantly female and do not receive effective protection, such as part-time work carried out occasionally or even services offered to sensitive groups of the population by the various 'personal care' services. the need for specific measures is made all the more pressing not only by the fact that such work is illegal in most member states, but also by the current migration issue which makes migrant women more vulnerable to being led into informal forms of work. the rapporteur proposes a series of targeted actions to tackle the uncertainty in this sector. i should like to point out that the rapporteur has produced a very important report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ first of all, i refer to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in brussels on 27 april 2016. i note that i abstained in the vote on the report on women employed as domestic helpers and carers in the eu because the report is not sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of taxation of the income of the self-employed, which would allow the member states to reduce the tax burden on self-employed workers. the european parliament's group of the european people's party would like to inform the workers that this resolution is a call and a wish and is not binding on the member states and the commission, which are at the same time promoting a barbaric anti-union attack in all the member states through laws and memoranda. the framework it provides is inadequate and illusions must not be cultivated. on the contrary, because the problem is acute, the jcc is making use of every opportunity to strengthen intervention, to take initiatives in the trade union movement to protect the profession of domestic helpers, to establish collective agreements with full rights for all workers and domestic helpers. he is leading the struggle against the labour jungle of the capitalist system, which is served by the syriza-anel government, which is implementing the 3rd memorandum. in this anti-working class onslaught only the workers with their struggle can put up substantial obstacles against eu, government and capital.
in writing. ‒ the the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of taxation of the income of the self-employed, which would allow the member states to reduce the tax burden on self-employed workers. the european parliament's group of the european people's party would like to inform the workers that this resolution is a call and a wish and is not binding on the member states and the commission, which are at the same time promoting a barbaric anti-union attack in all the member states through laws and memoranda. the framework it provides is inadequate and illusions must not be cultivated. on the contrary, because the problem is acute, the jcc is making use of every opportunity to strengthen intervention, to take initiatives in the trade union movement to protect the profession of domestic helpers, to establish collective agreements with full rights for all workers and domestic helpers. he is leading the struggle against the labour jungle of the capitalist system, which is served by the syriza-anel government, which is implementing the 3rd memorandum. in this anti-working class onslaught only the workers with their struggle can put up substantial obstacles against eu, government and capital.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age, which not only highlights the potential of the information society and information and communication technologies (ict) and the internet for women, but also refers to the challenges and risks of the digital age for women and girls, such as precarious work, sexual exploitation and violence against women via the internet. it therefore stresses the need for monitoring, prevention and the existence of an appropriate legal framework.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age, which we voted on today, is an important effort to safeguard women's rights, particularly in the light of the evolution of the productive sector in the modern era. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age, as this report simply promotes so-called positive discrimination, which does not ensure gender equality, but rather inequality, as access to the labour market is no longer based on merit criteria.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the digital age and, in particular, information and communication technologies (icts) are undoubtedly affecting not only markets but also society as a whole. while these technological developments are becoming platforms for the empowerment and free expression of women and vulnerable groups through access to information and knowledge, and are creating a fertile ground for new employment opportunities for women, the gender gap in ict entry continues to exist. the report recalls the demographic, political and economic challenges facing europe, including in the technological field, while proposing measures to make better use of the digital agenda by the member states and the union in order to support the integration and participation of women in the information society.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in brussels on 27 april 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission mr president, the reports and today's debate on the so-called 'cohesion policy' of the european union show that the mechanisms for direct and combined financing of business groups and at local level are being strengthened. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it is characteristic that for mountain areas, whose populations suffer from dramatic shortages of public health, welfare and education infrastructure, the european parliament, the european union and its governments propose that cohesion fund funds be directed to renewable energy projects in order to offer large and rapid gains to industry groups. the european union and the capitalist development you promote are built on the ruins of workers' and people's rights, poverty and misery. the people can only bring about development for themselves by fighting against monopolies and their associations, by taking into their own hands the power and the wealth they produce.
the commission the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's cohesion policy is a very important one. but it is implemented with many problems, many obstacles and, in many cases, with low efficiency. for example, in my country, greece, two years later the absorption of erdf programmes is beginning with difficulty, and fortunately today the first of the innovative enterprise guarantee programmes, a private sector synergy with horizon 2020, was signed. what can we do ? in principle, we should encourage member states to continue synergies, either with the european fund for strategic investments, the sme instrument or the horizon 2020 programme. and particularly in countries like greece, this is necessary to guarantee the country's risk. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial markets are not affected by the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the regions concerned. we must simplify the tools and encourage the member states to do their job reliably.
the commission mr president, mountain areas cover about 30% of the union's territory and many of them are rich in natural resources and renewable energy sources. they could thus help to boost the development of the member states of the union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis, but that it is not disrupted by the economic crisis. at the same time, the implementation of the rural development programme for greece for 2014-2020 should be accelerated, as it includes funding of eur 4,7 billion and it should be ensured that the aid is given to the farmers themselves, so as to cover 10,3% of the agricultural area for biodiversity conservation, 12,1% for improved water management and 10,7% for land management. in addition, in view of the poverty and social exclusion affecting greece, union funds should be increased and emphasis should be placed on the less developed regions.
the commission mr president, by doubling the capacity of the north stream pipeline, the north stream ii project will allow the import of cheap russian gas into the european market to increase, and this is a positive economic development. unfortunately, however, the current rules on the operation of natural gas in europe will not allow the full exploitation of this capacity for 'alleged' competition reasons. the compulsory third-party access rule makes 50% of the capacity of nord stream i almost useless, just as it now makes nord stream ii. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy. at the same time, the commission must ensure that all member states, not just germany, have the same opportunities to build energy infrastructure, at least in legal terms. he must not judge pipeline plans by two meters and two scales. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the state aid granted to the beneficiaries of the measures is compatible with the internal market. on the contrary, north stream i received, in particular because of germany, exemptions that allowed its completion. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster, which is a matter of concern to the community, is a very important one, and i would like to ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the directive.
the commission madam president, it is necessary but useless to remind you that the unity of the union is being shaken by germany and will soon collapse, and not just because of the possible brexit, illegal immigration, austerity policies and the strangulation of greece, which are policies imposed by germany. it will collapse because it is now clear that more and more countries are openly resisting policies which are in most cases imposed by blackmail: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas pipeline is not used in the future. germany is pursuing a policy of two measures and two stations, forbidding other countries to have privileged economic relations with russia, while it is itself benefiting the most from them, against moral and political norms. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas market is not affected by the crisis. but it also blocks the construction of the south stream pipeline, which would carry russian gas through greece, bulgaria and italy. i am not a prophet to predict when the union will collapse, but i believe that a split is inevitable as long as we tolerate germany's insatiable thirst for political and economic supremacy.
the commission madam president, the cases of improper fish labelling observed in restaurants in brussels confirm the need for traceability of fishery and aquaculture products. first, in accordance with fisheries legislation and the community control system, all lots of fishery and aquaculture products should be traceable at all stages of their production, processing, distribution and marketing - from their capture or cultivation to retail sale. in addition, undertakings marketing such products should provide all necessary information to the competent control authorities regarding the traceability of the products. the commission should of course take immediate steps to ensure that the rules on traceability of fishery products in restaurants are respected and that consumers are always given the appropriate information. at the same time, the control authorities should assess the potential risks in order to avoid any disruption of trade. moreover, the application of traceability rules not only satisfies the legal requirements but also helps to recall products that present a problem.
the commission mr president, fisheries contribute to job creation in many countries, both within and outside the european union. a sound external fisheries policy of the union must safeguard the interests of european fishermen, especially small-scale fishermen, and require sustainability, food security and the fight against illegal fishing outside the european union. the fisheries partnership agreements between the european union, liberia and mauritania must therefore include clear clauses on the protection of fish stocks, the fight against illegal and unregulated fishing, and above all, mr vella, on the respect of fundamental labour rights in the activities of fishermen in these countries. in particular, it should be noted that mauritania is a country where, mr vella, 150,000 haratins, or 4% of the population, are subject to slavery! this is unacceptable and the european union must condemn and avoid any agreement with mauritania. what do you have to say about this matter mr. vella ? will you sign a fisheries agreement with mauritania, a country where there is slavery? i am waiting, commissioner, for an answer to this very serious question.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, in recent days, turkish provocation towards greece has exceeded all precedents. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this behaviour of turkey constantly creates risks of new air or sea accidents during the interceptions planned by the greek air forces on the basis of international law, as has happened repeatedly in the past. the main thing is that greece is thus obliged to high defence expenditure, which is burdening its fiscal problems and is historically one of the main causes of the country's over-indebtedness. the european union is calling for a reduction in greek defence spending in the context of the evaluations of the greek programme, and it must play a correspondingly more active role in containing turkish aggression.
the commission the european parliament has decided to change the name of today's anniversary, 9 may, from the day of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples to the day of the european union, the birth of the monopolies. you are rewriting history, equating fascism with communism, escalating anti-communism, supporting the persecution of communists in many countries, setting up festivals and houses to falsify european history. objectively, you are cultivating the soil for the revival of fascism which is born as a reserve of capitalist decay and barbarism. you can neither change history nor erase popular memory. we honour those who fought in every way against nazism or fascism then and now. the communist parties that heroically led the national liberation and anti-fascist movements, the titanic struggle and sacrifices of the soviet union of millions of bolsheviks and soviet people who nailed the red flag to the heart of the nazi beast in the reichstag. history does not go back. the 21st century is the era of victorious socialist revolutions for social liberation.
the commission mr president, china is a huge global economy and for this very reason it makes sense that it should be a trading partner of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and that the european union's financial interests are protected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. on the other hand, chinese products are of questionable quality and often dangerous to the health of consumers. the european union's legislation should therefore protect the economic interests of the member states.
the commission mr president, i may be the only member, or one of the few, who is in the chamber from the time the sitting begins until the end of each day, as is the case with the whole debate. that cannot be disputed.
the commission mr president, since you are referring to me personally, i am replying to you. ask your services to do a better job. i've been here since the beginning and i'm involved, that can't be disputed, and i have to answer to you. that's why i sent you this note. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i'm telling you this because you referred to me personally. i am not going to go into the details of the matter.
the commission mr president, for some time now german and other european multinationals have been 'outsourcing' their production to china in order to reduce labour costs. the result was a steep rise in unemployment in europe, and the european union turned a blind eye to massive violations of labour rights in china and to chinese dumping. now china has become the second largest economy in the world. it aspires to achieve a new division of labour and redistribution of spheres of influence and exploitation throughout the world. in this context, the debate on the state of the economy is linked to whether anti-dumping duties could continue to be imposed on chinese products to protect the european steel industry and workers protesting outside parliament. but before we move on to the debate on whether china is a market economy or not, it should be examined whether it is necessary to stop the 'chinanisation' of the european economy, as european companies want to imitate chinese companies and dismantle labour rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but when they are forced to migrate because of the intervention of external factors leading to its destruction, then the future is dark. the malicious interventionist policies of the european powers in the countries of africa and the middle east have forced the reluctant relocation of millions of young people to the countries of the union. and now what is being planned and sought is their technical training and employment to complete the ambitions of germany and the other powers. but you have not taken into account that people from different cultures can coexist with problems but not assimilate, especially when they migrate to the countries responsible for uprooting them. instead of helping the young people of the union's member countries and achieving economic growth, you are creating imported terrorists. so stop this policy while there is still time. train the young, not just develop their skills. give them work, not employment. give them incentives to create a better future for themselves, not causes and motives to destroy yours.
the commission the european union's objective for young people is not, of course, stable, permanent employment with rights - this was the kke's written answer to a question - but how to exploit their unemployment to become cheaply employable, with starvation wages, flexible work, unpaid apprenticeship, without the right to social security. the main objective is to further permanently depress the general level of wages and benefits, at the expense of capitalist profits. the third greek memorandum, a quartet of syriza governments with the support of all the other parties except the kke, and the fourth greek memorandum already agreed at yesterday's eurogroup, are characteristic. the new savage pension cuts will also hit hard at the young people, who are effectively excluded from the right to a pension, with unattainable age limits, as they only wander between unemployment and temporary employment, and are called upon to pay unbearable social security contributions. let's not make them the new slaves of the 21st century! the european union must take a massive step forward in the struggle to overthrow the policies of capital and its parties.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat youth unemployment, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat youth unemployment. first, there is a need to improve the link between universities and the labour market and to strengthen technical education. secondly, we need a stable fiscal and fiscal framework to bring significant investment into the private sector of the economy. in addition, there is a need to finance small and mediumsized enterprises, which together constitute the largest collective employer. thirdly, a correction is needed in the composition of public expenditure to save money for investment in infrastructure and development projects without increasing public expenditure. fourth, the elderly, the people of my generation, must stop passing the burden of judgement on to the younger by protecting our own rights and privileges at the expense of their own prospects.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. in particular, at the moment in europe, the number of longterm unemployed exceeds 12 million, while the youth unemployment rate exceeds 20% in some member states of the union. of course, in countries like greece, which is now the champion of unemployment in europe because of the memoranda, youth unemployment is 48.9% as a result of the violent fiscal adjustment imposed by the troika on greece. at the same time, the european union's target of recovering the social triple a and boosting growth for 2016 is expected to be just €19 billion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the contrary, the european union should take immediate action to introduce the european minimum income, the european minimum wage and the european unemployment benefit in order to combat poverty in europe and the huge unemployment of young people.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. demographically, europe is in a much worse place than economically, being the oldest continent on the planet. this is due to the fact that the wrong economic and social policies are being followed, with the result that there is not enough support for families with minor children, and the problem is certainly compounded by the high unemployment of young people, more than twice as high as that of the general population. in the long term, we are trapped in a vicious circle, because the innovation from which we expect economic growth and job creation to come depends on having a sufficient number of young people with new ideas. the european union and its member states must act decisively, collectively and in a coordinated manner, or europe's long-term prospect is social and economic collapse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a simple codification of the existing texts, without any substantive amendment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report codifying the text of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on defence against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union. as this is a technical process of consolidating and codifying the different versions and amendments that the text has undergone since 2009 and does not concern its substance, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because it only attempts to codify the legislation governing the framework for defence against imports subsidised by non-eu countries, without bringing about a change in the existing regime, which needs significant improvement.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report as it only attempts to codify the legislation governing the framework for defence against imports subsidised by non-eu countries, without bringing about a change in the existing regime, which needs significant improvement.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ this report only attempts to codify the legislation governing the framework for defence against subsidised imports from non-eu countries, without amending the existing regime, which needs significant improvement.
in writing. ‒ i followed the recommendation of the consultative group of the competent legal services by voting in favour of this legislative resolution of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a simple codification of existing texts without any substantive amendment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on the codification of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union is not a substantive debate on the text but an attempt to consolidate and codify it. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because it only attempts to codify the legislation governing the framework for defence against dumped imports from non-eu countries, without bringing about a change in the existing regime, which needs significant improvement.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report as it only attempts to codify the legislation governing the framework for defence against imports dumped by non-eu countries, without bringing about a change in the existing regime, which needs significant improvement.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ this report only attempts to codify the legislation governing the framework for defence against dumped imports from non-eu countries, without amending the existing regime, which needs significant improvement.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament, with mrs hautala as rapporteur. the text adopted takes account of the opinion of the advisory committee on codification and not of a substantive amendment to the text.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted against the report on the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia, which states that if the eu does not act, it will allow private agreements to emerge which cannot guarantee the sustainable development of fisheries. the liberian authorities undertake not to grant more favourable conditions than those granted under this agreement to other foreign fleets operating in the liberian fisheries sector. the joint committee, i.e. between the european commission and liberia, will also meet at least once a year to review the implementation of the agreement and the protocol and, if necessary, to regulate the programming and financial contribution.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol. this recommendation focuses on the effort of cooperation between the two parties in the fisheries sector and constitutes a positive step towards further cooperation. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ votes against the recommendation as the proposed sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol will result in the application of strict control and supervision by eu monitoring mechanisms of the liberian exclusive economic zone, which would mark direct eu involvement in a highly important area of national sovereignty of a third country.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the recommendation as the proposed sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol will result in the application of strict control and surveillance by eu monitoring mechanisms of the liberian exclusive economic zone, which would mark direct eu involvement in a highly important area of third country national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the this recommendation refers to the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and its implementation protocol between the european union and liberia. it is clear that such a partnership would benefit both liberia, which would receive financial and technical support, given the need to strengthen the local community and combat illegal fishing, and the union, whose fishing rights would be guaranteed and its role in the region strengthened. i therefore voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 9 may 2016 and because this recommendation is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the proposed sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol will result in the implementation of strict control and surveillance by eu monitoring mechanisms of the liberian exclusive economic zone, which marks direct eu involvement in a highly important area of third country sovereignty.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i have approved this agreement by casting my vote in favour. the eu and liberia have been linked and cooperating under unclos and iccat for decades. the resolution concerns only tuna fishing, mainly for bigeye tuna, yellowfin tuna and bigeye tuna, caught by eu fleets in the relevant sea area. eu vessels can catch 6,500 tonnes of tuna fish a year for a total of eur 3,25 million over five years. the report notes, inter alia, that liberia meets the fao's requirements for responsible fishing.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement: fishing opportunities and financial compensation, which refers to mauritania, which is one of the poorest countries in the world, with 42% of its population living below the poverty line. eu support for fisheries policy is based on support for scientific and technical cooperation, training, fisheries monitoring, environmental protection and infrastructure development.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the today's vote on the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement on fishing opportunities and financial compensation is an attempt to intensify fisheries cooperation between the eu and mauritania, which will have positive effects for both sides. the additional opportunities for european fishermen to develop their activities, combined with the substantial economic and labour benefits that mauritania will receive, is a positive development step and that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the recommendation as the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the islamic republic of mauritania seeks to exploit economically the country by: (a) granting the european fleet preferential access to mauritania's surpluses and (b) reducing the annual financial contribution to be paid by the eu to allow european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the recommendation as the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the islamic republic of mauritania seeks to exploit economically the country by: (a) granting the european fleet preferential access to mauritania's surpluses and (b) reducing the annual financial contribution to be paid by the eu to mauritania in order to allow european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. the report gives a more realistic picture of the technical specifications of vessels and of the management of resources. the balance between the union's financial contribution and its fishing opportunities is thus better, also because of the commitments made by mauritania in terms of transparency and preferential access for the european fleet. i therefore voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of four years, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 9 may 2016 and because the recommendation is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the islamic republic of mauritania seeks to exploit economically the country by granting the european fleet preferential access to mauritania's surpluses and by reducing the annual financial contribution paid by the eu to mauritania in order to allow european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the in 2015, the eu and mauritania agreed on a new protocol allowing eu fishermen to operate in mauritanian waters for four years, and specifically concerns pelagic trawlers. it should be noted that the four-year validity of the protocol will ensure greater stability for the fleet operating in the waters of the region. i voted in favour of mr mato's report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the today's vote on the recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states and the republic of korea on a civilian global navigation satellite system (gnss) is an effort with both positive and negative elements. it must be ensured that joint participation in space programmes is done with the right intentions, with the protection of important information and without compromising the rights of citizens. i therefore consider that further consultation on the details of the agreement is necessary and i have therefore decided to vote against.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu is proposed to cooperate with the republic of korea, a country with considerable potential in the field of space technology and its applications. the purpose is to encourage, facilitate and promote a civilian global navigation system (gnss), independent of the us gps system.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the recommendation as it proposes eu cooperation with the republic of korea, a country with considerable potential in the field of space technology and its applications. the purpose is to encourage, facilitate and promote a civilian global navigation system (gnss), independent of the us gps.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ korea is a country with space technology capabilities. korea has long expressed a desire to expand the use of satellite navigation. the purpose of the report is to implement a satellite navigation agreement between korea and the eu. i voted against this report because i have reservations about whether satellite navigation could be used for other reasons.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, on a civilian global navigation satellite system (gnss), because it is not complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu is proposed to cooperate with the republic of korea, a country with considerable potential in the field of space technology and its applications. the purpose is to encourage, facilitate and promote a civilian global navigation system (gnss), independent of the us gps.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour, endorsing the initiative of the committee on industry, research and energy, which was approved by an increased majority in the house, supported by most political groups.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the new territorial development instruments in the context of cohesion policy. cohesion policy 2001-2020 places a strong emphasis on a bottom-up approach through the use of integrated and site-specific approaches to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion. in addition, the new tools mentioned in the report will probably be able to help the frequent phenomenon of local governments' inability to develop and implement strategies for their territory.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on new territorial development tools under cohesion policy 2014-2020 for integrated territorial investment and local community-led development is an attempt to strengthen existing financial instruments and to create new ones. as it aims to create more job opportunities and improve economic conditions throughout europe, i consider it a positive step and that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against this report because the use of the esi funds creates additional and unnecessary requirements and obstacles at national and regional level. moreover, the high funding for the implementation and application of the taptc and octs will in no way lead to the creation of quality jobs. on the contrary, it promotes the smooth integration of refugees and the right to set up their own businesses.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am against this report because the use of the esi funds creates additional and unnecessary requirements and obstacles at national and regional level. moreover, the high funding for the implementation and application of the taptc and octs will in no way lead to the creation of quality jobs; on the contrary, it promotes the smooth integration of refugees and the right to start their own businesses.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the two new tools were created for cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 to achieve the territorial cohesion objective: community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investments (iti). i voted in favour of the report because it promotes greater political cohesion in the member states.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the new territorial development tools in the context of cohesion policy 2014-2020: integrated spatial investment (isi) and local community-led development, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 9 may 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the use of the esi funds creates additional and unnecessary requirements and obstacles at both national and regional level. the high level of funding for the implementation and application of the ctbt and the octs does not lead to the creation of quality jobs; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant the right to establish their own businesses to the undocumented migrant workers.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the any initiative that enhances access to finance for local communities and supports local development is our immediate priority. the resolution calls on national, regional and local authorities to establish flexible and effective frameworks for absorbing funds and underlines the ecb's specific investment priority for local development and the strengthening of local initiative. the possibilities offered by the new regulations should be better exploited in order to achieve an integrated bottom-up cohesion policy.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted today on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment by conferring on the commission powers of delegation and implementing powers for the adoption of certain measures. the report is a positive step towards improving the existing rules and i believe it contributes to the imposition of a better regulatory framework. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report proposes to strengthen the cooperation of eurostat (commission) with other international organisations such as the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) and the international monetary fund (imf) in order to fully control trade and investment in the member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to this report as it proposes to strengthen the commission's (eurostat) cooperation with other international organisations such as the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) and the international monetary fund (imf) in order to fully control trade and investment in the member states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the general objective of the report is to remove all provisions relating to the regulatory procedure from all legislative acts by the end of the parliamentary term. the commission has undertaken to examine legislative acts containing references to the regulatory procedure. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that these legal innovations will make statistics more reliable and make them a tool for economic policy decision-making.
ecr), in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment as regards the delegation of power and implementing powers to the commission for the adoption of certain measures, because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report proposes to strengthen the cooperation of eurostat (commission) with other international organisations such as the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) and the international monetary fund (imf) in order to fully control member states' trade and investment.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i supported the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which was adopted by a large majority of its members. the text recognises the possibility of revising the regulation as a means of enhancing the transparency and reliability of statistics and thus of supporting economic policy decisions. finally, it should be noted that its updating is considered necessary in order to bring it into line with the rules of the tfeu.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions because it refers to the importance of these regions and how they can contribute to development strategies such as europe 2020. the rich diversity of renewable energy sources in these regions, as well as the natural resources they possess, can make a significant contribution to both the achievement of the union's energy objectives and the fight against unemployment, in particular through green employment, which also aims at combating climate change.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions addresses important environmental and economic issues. cohesion policy can and should be linked to corresponding policies concerning the urban environment, as they are inextricably linked. the report is a positive step for these regions and that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report focuses on the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the eu's mountains and aims to create an agenda that will provide the framework for international, cross-border and interregional policy-making; and to implement an approach to address the challenges facing mountain regions in europe. we oppose the report as a whole, although it does have a lot of positive elements for the development of mountain areas, as it uses programmes such as horizon 2020, the esi funds and the esf, which support the employment and the smooth settlement of migrants in these mountain areas.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report as a whole, although it does have a lot of positive elements for the development of mountain areas, as it uses programmes such as horizon 2020, the esi funds and the esf, which support the employment and smooth settlement of migrants in these mountain areas.
in writing. ‒ the present report calls for a holistic and coordinated european approach to mountains as well as for the establishment of a framework in the form of an agenda for eu mountainous regions within the context of the cohesion policy. the aforementioned proposals are crucial in order to address the infrastructural, economic and environmental challenge that these regions are facing. i strongly believe that the improvement of living conditions in mountainous regions, as well as in other disadvantaged regions like outermost and volcanic areas, can lead to a better social, territorial and economic cohesion by providing new green jobs and renewable energy sources. consequently, i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ first of all, i refer to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 9 may 2016. i note that i abstained from voting on the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions because it is not sufficiently documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report focuses on the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the eu's mountains and aims to create an agenda that will provide the framework to help shape international, cross-border and interregional policies and implement an approach to tackling the challenges facing mountain regions in europe. although the report seems to present positive elements for the development of mountain areas, its approach follows the logic of previous strategies that have already failed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the text presented is an important tool for supporting and developing the eu's mountainous and inaccessible regions. the report recommends the conditions necessary for job creation and economic development in the mountains, highlights the issue of the interconnection of inaccessible areas and their accessibility, taking into account the preservation and protection of their environmental wealth as well as their social and economic dimension and specificity. i certainly supported it by voting in favour.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr moscovici and mr weber, it has been six years since greece joined the memoranda. six stone years in which greece's gdp fell by 25%. 40% of the greek population lives below the poverty line. wages and pensions were cut. unemployment has exceeded 1.5 million. thousands of small and medium-sized businesses have closed. the tax evasion of the greek people's wealth has hit a ceiling and the debt, from 125% of gdp in 2010, reaches 200% of gdp in 2016. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the troika is also imposing additional 'cutoff measures' of eur 3.6 billion plus a budgetary cut. the eurogroup of yesterday, mr moscovici, continued the well-known failed memorandum policy - which was also supported by the samaras government, mr weber - of forced fiscal adjustment, partial austerity, tax evasion of the middle class, the selling off of public assets and red loans. the decision of the eurogroup yesterday is therefore a new social armageddon, a monument to the cynicism of the troika and the creditors towards the impoverished greek people. as for the so-called debt settlement, we have the same project repeated: the refusal to immediately return the ecb and central banks' profits from greek bonds, which for the period 2014-2016 alone amount to 5.1 billion euros, which could go to growth. so again, uncertain, vague promises of a supposed future settlement of the greek debt "when, if and if", a debt which has proved, mr weber, to be unfeasible since of the 220 billion euros given as loans to greece in the years of the memorandum, only 9 billion euros went into the coffers and the remaining 211 billion euros went back into the pockets of the lenders, rescuing german and other banks. i think that is a very good point. the greek people can no longer stand poverty and cannot stand exploitation and humiliation and will soon throw the troika out of our country to take back greece.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, mr weber, in the five minutes of your speech you attacked the greek prime minister, mr tsipras, five times to help your political friend, mr mitsotakis, but unfortunately the truth does not help you, because your friends of the new democracy left greece in 2009 with a public deficit of 15.5%, with a public debt of 125% of gdp and, at the end of 2014, together with pasok, had reached a public debt of 180% of gdp. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia, but i am saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is a very serious problem. you will see mr tsipras for many years as prime minister because that is what the greek people want. yesterday was a good day for greece and for europe, at the eurogroup after six years of savage, harsh unilateral austerity, a huge recession, triple unemployment, great poverty! we have finally had some positive news that can help greece and the greek people to finally secure greater political and economic stability, a quicker return to growth on the basis of the optimistic forecasts made by the commission and mr moscovici and ensuring debt sustainability without any burden on the european taxpayer. but it is a decision which also helps europe to avoid a needless new crisis and destabilisation in its south-eastern extremity, as it has tried to do with the blackmailing, irrational, irresponsible things demanded by the international monetary fund. the eurogroup yesterday rejected the excessive and absurd demands for additional austerity measures by the international monetary fund, and yesterday the eurogroup drew up a clear road map for substantial debt relief by cancelling the plans of those who wanted to break that commitment. we have two challenges ahead of us: greece will honour the agreement it has signed to return to growth as quickly as possible by making all the necessary reforms, but europe, a united europe, must also honour its commitment to substantial debt relief and make it concrete and substantial.
the commission madam president, the death-dealing law passed by the syriza-anel government is destroying the people's insurance rights, while at the same time generalising its savage tax evasion. you have the approval of the house, but the people's legitimacy for all this you never got! despite your rivalries, you all agree - the european union, the international monetary fund and the government - that the criterion for evaluation is cheap labour and the provocative privileges of big business. this is the strategy of the monopolies, which serve the people at a constant sacrifice, both in the crisis and in any recovery that comes. the permanent mechanisms of successive anti-people measures, the automatic cuts in wages, pensions and entitlements are the permanent memories of the european union, not only in greece but in all its member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a determined people can overthrow it and become the owners of the wealth it produces.
the commission madam president, winston churchill was right when he said that if you want to get rid of the left once and for all, and i would add populism, you must let them govern for three or four months. in the case of greece, the utopia and the illusions - as the prime minister himself admitted in parliament - have cost the greek people something more. indeed, the european institutions set the budgetary adjustment targets for the samaras government in december 2014 at €1 billion, for the tsipras government now at €5.5 billion and adding €3.5 billion of preventive austerity measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. but excessive taxation leads to a reduction, to the elimination of public revenue. the programme is in danger of not coming out and we'll need new measures in october. the debt needs to be adjusted, it needs to be alleviated. europe has shown solidarity. the debt was reduced in 2012 by 100 billion euros, its servicing needs 4 billion euros a year from 16 needed in the past. the tsipras government cannot use debt as the last fig leaf of a failed negotiation. greece needs huge public and private investments, it needs to unleash all the productive forces of the country, it needs to get back on a growth path to get through this long and prolonged crisis at the lowest possible cost.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, commissioner, yesterday's decision by the eurogroup is a monument to economic subjugation and the imposition of economic power on greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commissioner knows very well that yesterday the greek minister of finance handed over the keys to the ministry of finance, handed over the keys to the greek parliament, and that from now on the lenders will decide by means of legislation and, as a rule, by means of presidential decrees what must be done in greece. from now on, the surplus, the taxes that will go into the popular strata, the taxes that multinational corporations will be exempt from, will be decided by the lenders. mr moscovici, the eurozone of austerity, unemployment, inequality and the memoranda, the adjustment programmes you speak of, have made the greek parliament, with the responsibility of course of the greek governments which sign and implement the memoranda, a mere decoration. the answer, mr moscovici, will come from the greek people, but also from the french people and the young people who have taken to the streets and squares of european cities. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. i would like to thank my colleague for the question he asked me. the solution, mr president, is known to us, to the commission, to the eurogroup, to everyone. the greek debt problem is a political lever to impose austerity policies. when greece was in a debt crisis, the treaties could have been invoked, not the robbery mechanisms of the troika, and the treaty could have been amended, article 136 if you have not read it, so that memoranda calling for anti-people measures could be legally imposed. so there were solutions to the problem. but they did not want to do so, and now, as the data provided by my colleague, data published by a german institute, has shown, of all the 220 billion euros of loans that greece has taken in these years, 210 billion euros went to german and french banks and, because i am an old mep, mr president, i also recall the testimony of mr moscovici's predecessor, mr oli rehn, who admitted that all these aid programmes were supposedly made to greece to save the eurozone and german banks. )
the commission madam president, once again we are spectators in the same theatre of the absurd. it is incredible that we are experiencing such a situation in the european union, and yet we have never experienced such political pain and misery before. the european leaders, tied behind the german chariot and with their obedient instrument the syriza-anel government, have demolished the last strongholds of greece. they have broken all their promises to the people, betraying their homeland and destroying it, handing it over with future generations to the genocidal lenders of the imf and above all to our allies and partners, our friends, impoverishing the people, dismantling all social classes, commerce, public health and everything else that concerns the functioning and existence of a state. the memorandum loans did not save greece but the european banks by transferring their losses to the member states which in turn transferred them to the greek taxpayers. less than 5% of the 220 billion euros in bailout loans that greece received in the first five years of the memoranda went to the greek budget, with the rest going to bail out european banks, according to research published in the german business newspaper handelsblatt. in all the countries that you imposed the so-called bailout of the memorandum, their debt as a percentage of gdp at least doubled. in fact, the commission does not make statements on the progress of the negotiations on the greek support programme, it merely draws up the timetable of a death foretold.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied. i thank you for accepting my intervention. you mentioned earlier the progress made by greece under the government of mr samaras. you know he's partly responsible for the dire economic situation our country is in? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. is this the mr. samaritan you admire and applaud?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, i am glad that most of you here today recognize that a crime has indeed been committed against the greek people. but, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's political developments have once again shown that there is a dominant power in europe today which is indifferent to democracy, to human rights and to human life. it imposes cuts, memos and pain. there is also in greece a willing prime minister who is implementing this policy by declaring that the radical alternative path is an illusion. but there is a force in europe, and it is here on record, which has no illusions about the memoranda and defends the cause of democracy and social justice. there is a people in europe who, without any illusions, did not give in to the blackmail of the european executive and said 'no' to the bank bailout, choosing to save themselves. so there are two kinds of evaluations. the one that counts the subjugation and collapse of greek society as the gain of the banks, and the one that counts the resistance of the greek people as the gain of european society. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the debate, but also the european parliament itself.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the good news is that the tsipras government had abandoned its strategy of confrontation with the eurozone and is making the necessary adjustment effort, so we will not have a repeat of the 2015 crisis. but unfortunately, there is some bad news. first, we are obliged to pay dearly the bill for the failed radical experiment of tsipras/varoufakis in 2015. secondly, the economic policy mix implemented by the syriza government emphasizes the exhaustion of private sector businesses and households with the result that new problems are created in the functioning of the economy. thirdly, following a request from the international monetary fund, the tsipras government accepted the creation of an intervention mechanism and the preparation of the so-called precautionary measures for 2018. it thus sends the message that the greek programme is not very reliable and it removes the weighty nature of the third programme and the memorandum relating to it. in this way it makes them less efficient and less developmental. the above proves the enormous cost of left-wing populism. syriza triggered early elections in late 2014, blocking greece's exit from the memorandum by implementing the latest €1.2 billion measures. but the tsipras government has already implemented, announced or planned measures ten times as high. that says it all about left-wing populism. we hope that the suffering of the greek people will also serve as a lesson for the peoples of europe.
s & d) and the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while the greek people's drama is culminating in new desperate austerity measures, new pension cuts and the most savage tax attack on the poorest, by the most unthinking nationalist-populist government of the post-election period, some are celebrating this convenient and helpful policy as a blank check on the troika and its every demand. the european union has accepted an agreement which takes revenge on the weakest citizens without any real progressive reforms. the schäuble policy is the one that is absolutely served and postpones any easing of the targets for 2018 and we see. and while some late friends are even willing to turn a blind eye to the total selling-off of greek assets to foreign funds and speculators by the syriza/anel coalition government, let's leave the flag of solidarity for when we really decide to be interested in the citizens and not in the numbers and the flags of the left.
s & d) and the madam president, yesterday's eurogroup showed us that the european institutions and the greek governments are working together seamlessly. six years of crisis, three memoranda, 12 positive assessments and there is always a government which triumphantly tells us that the numbers will be better tomorrow, but all the citizens see are new direct and indirect taxes. why is that ? it is because the european institutions, forgetting about growth, are only planning budgetary objectives which collapse because we have no growth. and the governments are refusing the reforms precisely because they might threaten the deep greek client state. but our twelve positive assessments have shown that there is no way out unless major reforms are made that do not have a budgetary cost, such as the renewal of the public sector and subsidized agriculture, reducing pharmaceutical spending, reducing the time to justice, stopping fuel smuggling, stopping corruption in public spending. the same things that five years two governments have not touched and fifteen months the current government has not even started.
the commission madam president, commissioner moscovici, yesterday the eurogroup reiterated the decision on the debt dating back to november 2012, but with additional and increased measures and with an automatic fiscal correction mechanism. it's a promise that's been pending for four years and along the way, since january 2015 alone, 9 billion euros have gone out of the pockets of the greek people. at the same time, you have a responsibility as a creditor, because you allow a policy mix based on more taxation, more increases in social security contributions, which favor both tax evasion and tax avoidance. to break this vicious circle, greece does not need other programmes, it needs another policy with less taxation, with less spending, it needs another government that will quickly proceed with structural reforms, so that we do not discuss the greek problem here again, so that greece is a protagonist in the heart of the eurozone and, of course, first of all, that you keep your promises that have been pending for four years.
s & d) and the the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december last gave a clear signal of the need to strengthen the european union's role in the world economy. more taxes and social security contributions to the productive forces do not foreshadow the reduction of unemployment, which is greece's most important social issue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. the responsibility lies with the creditors and the greek government. the lack of strategy for better days highlights the lack of vision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, if there are people in this house who really believe that the imf is an obstacle to a fair solution to the greek debt, but also to a fairer austerity policy for the greek programme, and we want to leave, then let us vote in the european parliament to withdraw the imf from the greek programme, unless of course you are using it only as an alibi.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, at yesterday's eurogroup meeting it was agreed that the sustainability of greek public debt requires measures in the short, medium and long term. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it must be understood by all that neither greece nor any other state, outside or within europe, can achieve primary budgetary surpluses of 3.5% of gnp annually for decades. greece must ensure that it does not revert to primary deficits, and the other eurozone member states must find a way to limit the greek debt burden to levels that can be refinanced by the capital markets. a realistic and courageous restructuring will ultimately benefit both greece and its creditors.
the commission madam president, it is an oxymoron that the first world humanitarian summit is taking place in istanbul, a city where the may day protests were drowned in blood. it is oxymoronic that the biggest event on the un agenda this year is hosted by a state, turkey, that blatantly violates social rights, fuels bloody wars, oppresses minorities and political beliefs. the european union must provide concrete answers to the major humanitarian crisis currently affecting the syrian people, for which turkey is responsible, in the context of the conference. a humanitarian crisis that is being transferred to europe and particularly to greece and will continue to exist as long as the european union tolerates and lets daesh and its supporters continue their criminal work. the humanitarian crisis, however, is not only affecting the refugees, it is also affecting the greek people, who, having been impoverished by the memoranda and the troika, can no longer take in more refugees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, the european union mercosur agreement paves the way for the free trade agreement between the european union and argentina, brazil, paraguay and uruguay, which will have disastrous consequences for the european union's agricultural sector, according to the farmers' union copa-cogeca. the mercosur countries are already exporters of agri-food products to the member states of the european union, with 86% of european imports being beef and 70% poultrymeat. according to the representatives of copa-cogeca, the elimination of duties is therefore unnecessary for the increase of trade with the european union, since the european union exports only a small part of the beef it produces. in addition, imports from mercosur countries do not meet the high quality and environmental standards of the european union and there is a food safety concern as meat from cloned animals is circulating in argentina. finally, the agricultural sector will lose 7 billion euros.
the commission madam president, the objective of the 2030 agenda is to help the member states of the european union to fight poverty and achieve sustainable development. in particular, in line with the 2030 agenda, in order to achieve the objective of sustainable development, issues such as poverty, climate change, health, education and gender equality should be addressed. the european union, of course, with its merkel austerity, is doing nothing to help its member states achieve these objectives. the european union's memorandum policies imposed on greece are ultimately creating armies of unemployed and increasing poverty and social exclusion. if the european union is to achieve the objectives of the 2030 agenda, it must abandon austerity, take decisive action against poverty and help solve the public debt problem in both the european periphery and the developing countries.
the commission madam president, lebanon and jordan are two of the countries in the middle east which together host 1.7 million refugees from syria, along with refugees from palestine and iraq. the aid to be given to these countries by the european union must be substantial in order to enable them to cope with the humanitarian crisis that has arisen as a result of the civil war in syria. the problem is not only economic, however; it is mainly focused on the potential for destabilisation of these two countries due to the side effects of having large numbers of immigrants in them. the aid to be given there must therefore be given on a pragmatic basis so as to avoid the mistakes made in the case of greece. the european union has already created many problems in greece and is in danger of turning that country into a concentration camp for unhappy human beings. that is why we must avoid making mistakes in the aid to lebanon and jordan, since today, in the case of greece, we depend on the goodwill of turkey - whether it will blackmail us or not - and on the goodwill of certain member states, whether they will finally agree to the percentage of migrants to be accepted or whether they will close their borders.
the commission madam president, according to the latest figures from the united nations high commissioner for refugees, the number of syrian refugees in jordan and lebanon exceeds 1.5 million. lebanon in particular, which is a small country of 4.5 million people, is currently hosting more than a million refugees. it's the country with the highest proportion of refugees to permanent residents in the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. sooner or later these refugees will find themselves on the run again and many of them will be heading for greece. the european union must take all the necessary preventive measures to deal with the coming crisis. i have personally long proposed the creation of hot spots in the first countries to receive refugees and the organisation of their immediate resettlement in the countries of the european union. this of course requires resources. so instead of spending 6 billion euros on aid to turkey, which we can clearly not trust, let us give at least part of this money to the organization of refugee camps and hot spots in jordan and lebanon.
the european union has a policy of supporting jordan and lebanon on the one hand and turkey on the other. the number of refugees in lebanon, jordan and turkey has already been reported. the financial aid, of course, to lebanon and jordan and iraq combined, amounts to 350 million, as opposed to the aid to turkey which amounts to 6 billion euros. in lebanon, refugees are subjected to thorough checks and are granted residence permits or deported if they do not meet the criteria. to renew the card, they pay 100 dollars or a lebanese citizen has to vouch for it. in jordan, refugees have access to the labour market, but if the job is claimed by a jordanian and a refugee at the same time, the job is taken over de facto by the national of the country. in the europe of diversity and open borders, all this seems racist. but it is democratic for the european union to pay these sums to turkey, which, together with saudi arabia and qatar, created isis, drowns innocent souls in the aegean, and smuggles oil and stolen antiquities with daesh. for the greeks, to the evil they hear in the name of "turkey of erdogan and sunni muslim extremism" there is a solution. impose an embargo, stop all funding and end the process of its accession to the european union.
the commission the sharp drop in the price of oil has been shaking venezuela's fragile economy for the past two years and has brought about a major political crisis. the european union must accept the outcome of a possible referendum on maduro's membership, but it must also exercise restraint and objectivity in its judgment. the era of chavismo may be coming to an end, but that does not mean that all those policies that have enabled the economic integration of poor venezuelans, that have solved the housing problem for millions of people, that have given land access to landless farmers, that have nationalized oil revenues, must be overturned. policies that have come up against domestic mobs as well as international forces. the european union has unfortunately been unilateral in its attitude towards venezuela all this time. the european union must now let the venezuelan people chart their own independent course in the difficult period ahead.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mrs mogherini, developments in the occupied territories confirm, i would say, the utter failure of european policy in the region. zaire's criminal policy continues with settlements and demolitions in the occupied west bank increasing the desperation and hopelessness of the population. this year alone, he's expropriated 75,000 acres in the west bank for settlement, and europe is watching. mr netanyahu boldly tells you that he is destroying eu-funded humanitarian structures because they were built, he says, illegally and you behave as if you do not care. and you're telling us that you're in favor of a two-state solution? really, tell me, on what soil will the palestinian state be created? you realize, i imagine, that soon there will be nothing left. you started a structured dialogue and set a deadline of six months. it's been a month since the deadline and you've accomplished nothing. and i wonder what else israel has to do to get you to sanction it and to invoke the human rights clauses that you are obliged to defend under the european union treaties and that you seem to have as decorative association agreements?
the commission the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody in the occupied territories, and for the immediate release of all prisoners of conscience. this year alone, the israeli army has completely destroyed some four hundred homes and other buildings constructed with european union funds in the west bank, and recently demolished a school in the area, which means that twenty-three children will no longer be going to school. in addition, the israeli army is proceeding with the seizure of palestinian territories and restricting the movements of those living in the occupied territories. at the same time, population displacements in the region are ongoing, while the palestinian population in the west bank faces severe water shortages because most of this water is used by israel and israeli settlers. the palestinian question must therefore be resolved immediately so that we can have a viable solution in the middle east. the european union should increase funds to fight poverty in the region, create jobs and defend human rights in the region.
the commission madam president, europol is being re-established as an eu institution by strengthening and extending its repressive role to the utmost. it is involved in the member states by setting up national liaison centres with europol. it has the right to require them to bring criminal proceedings in respect of a wide range of offences. under the convenient pretext of combating terrorism, it becomes the centre of a huge dossier of personal data, including on the social interactions of each individual, a hub for the exchange of this information with the security and intelligence services of the member states and third countries, in particular the united states, and even with private individuals, for example by monitoring the internet in conjunction with the business groups of the sector. your claims of alleged data protection and parliamentary accountability are a travesty and an alibi to legitimize this repressive action. the focus of the dossier is on political and social action, aimed at countering popular movements against the anti-people policy of the european union and governments. the workers' movement can, by strengthening its struggle, also confront the repressive mechanisms of protection of the power of the monopolies, which it must overthrow. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8))
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment. it is not necessary to visit europol's offices to understand its character. it is precisely the text itself that gives it this repressive character. if one reads it carefully, one will find that it greatly extends the scope of the information which europol collects on all the personal habits and activities of each individual. and of course, anyone who reads it carefully will understand that the subject of the information is particularly focused on social, political and trade union activity because it is precisely these points that those who want to control social action fear. this is the repressive nature of europol.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. these threats are mainly related to terrorism, cyber attacks and organised crime. the people of europe feel insecure as the security of their personal data is undermined. the european police office, europol, is the body called upon to deal with these threats in cooperation with the police and judicial authorities of other countries. in order to be able to carry out this task successfully, it must exchange information with these services and with services of third countries, and we must be particularly careful in this respect. since this information also involves personal data, it is essential to ensure that the security requirement does not infringe human rights. information should only be provided when it is almost certain that a civilian is suspected of committing terrorist or related acts. finally, it must be ensured that this information is not used to prosecute political opponents, either by undemocratic governments or by governments with undemocratic and authoritarian mindsets.
the commission madam president, in recent years both the capacity and the budget of europol have been steadily increasing, especially in the field of combating terrorism. but the practical results are disappointing. this has been the case recently in both france and belgium. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. but this must be done with respect for the privacy of the citizens of the union. on the contrary, in the name of fighting terrorism, attempts are being made to fund from state budgets further repression and surveillance of citizens at the european level, and while it is well established that this policy has shown its limits in the fight against terrorism. the european union should encourage member states to spend money on guarding their borders, as well as on social inclusion and employment programmes for muslim populations who have lived for decades in european union member states. this is the only way to prevent terrorism effectively.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe. young people in the member states face serious problems of unemployment and access to the skilled labour market. in greece and the countries of the south in particular, undergraduate and postgraduate students are forced either to flee their homelands or to work in undeclared, uninsured and uncertain jobs. what excuse will you whisper to the 200,000 young people who have fled greece from the right-wing and left-wing memoranda? what have you done about the decimation of the greek population, the deforestation of the scientific cream and the unimaginable youth unemployment rate? those who promote projects to strengthen cultural links and enrich cultural diversity have no right to force member states to accept third-country nationals under the pretext of scientific potential. the greek and european nationalists are not less humanistic and socially sensitive than you accuse us of being. the demographic change in europe is a time bomb for europe and a direct threat to national security, to the social cohesion of the states. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area and the establishment of a european research area.
the commission mr president, at a time when europe is filled with armies of millions of unemployed young people, when, on the occasion of the british negotiation, restrictions are being introduced on the labour rights of the union's own citizens, when more than 200,000 young scientists from greece and thousands of other young people from the european south are migrating to the countries of the union's hard core, when hundreds of thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants are flooding greece and the other countries of the union, we are discussing the new directive and the regulations which give the opportunity for legal employment, with low wages, to third countries whose ministers will cover the few jobs available in the european union's wide-ranging services in greece, and at the same time thousands of young european workers are being excluded. we are also well aware that in greece thousands of third-country nationals are working at starvation wages in various hotels, purporting to be interns, while thousands of greek hotel workers are unemployed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same applies to the directive under discussion.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on the proposal to amend regulation no 575/2013 as regards exemptions for commodity dealers. as this report does not cover all the concerns that exist with regard to the amendment of the regulation, i believe that it should be changed and for that reason i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i voted against the report because it seeks to extend the exemptions from large exposures and capital requirements in the case of commodity dealers (= investment firms whose main business is exclusively the provision of investment services or financial instruments). these exemptions prolong the uncertainty and give the commission an additional indefinite time-frame to determine the urgently needed prudential regulatory regime for these undertakings.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to this report as it seeks to extend the exemptions from large exposures and capital requirements for commodity dealers from investment firms whose main business is exclusively the provision of investment services or financial instruments. these exemptions prolong the uncertainty and give the commission an additional indefinite time-frame to determine the urgently needed prudential regulatory regime for these undertakings.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission has decided to undertake a single review to establish an appropriate regime for commodity traders, i.e. economic operators covering a wide range of trading activities in energy and commodity markets. due to the complexity of this review and the time required until a new regulatory framework is drawn up, it is likely that they will be subject to the full capital requirements as defined by the capital requirements regulation and exempted until 2017. the report therefore proposes to extend the existing exemptions. i agree with the need to draw up a regulatory regime adapted to the profile of these economic operators. however, i decided to abstain, sharing the view of my political group that this extension would indirectly legitimize the prudential framework for financial institutions.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards exemptions for commodity dealers, because it is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the exemptions from large exposures and capital requirements for commodity dealers (= investment firms whose main business is exclusively the provision of investment services or financial instruments) are intended to be extended. these exemptions prolong the uncertainty and give the commission an additional indefinite time-frame to determine the urgently needed prudential regulatory regime for these undertakings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the commission's position as adopted by the european parliament, taking account of the rapporteur's comments.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted against the amendment tabled by the efdd because i am in favour of the draft law on the eu agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol). the proposal for a law on 'lisbonenses' provides a legal framework for the replacement of europol. the lisbon strategy meant that europol's structure needed to be reformed, including its overall functioning, governance, supervision, data protection regime and its relations with third countries and international organisations. the lisbon strategy is an important step towards greater efficiency at eu level in cooperation with law enforcement agencies and authorities. it also guarantees stronger supervision and a clearer data protection regime.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the today's vote on the recommendation on the council position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and replacing and repealing relevant council decisions is an important issue for the functioning of europol and the policing framework in europe. as i believe that the absolute strengthening of europol and the empowerment of its autonomous actions in the use of citizens' personal data must not be done recklessly but always with respect for the rights and interests of europeans, i have decided to vote in favour of rejecting the council's position.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the council proposal has many aspects which reduce efficiency and effectiveness and in practice limit europol's accountability. the points of friction in the sentence are: the proposal to merge europol and cepol. the possibility for the online content referencing unit to transfer publicly available personal data to private entities. 3. governance provisions which depart from the common approach for decentralised agencies. 4. eurojust will only have indirect access to information stored by europol.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the council proposal has many aspects which reduce efficiency and effectiveness and in practice limit europol's accountability. the points of friction in the sentence are: the proposal to merge europol and cepol. the possibility for the online content referencing unit to transfer publicly available personal data to private entities. the governance provisions deviate from the common approach for decentralised agencies. 4. eurojust will only have indirect access to information stored by europol. for the above reasons, i am voting in favour of report a8-0164/2016.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) and replacing and repealing council decisions 2009/371/jha, 2009/934/jha, 2009/935/jha, 2009/936/jha and 2009/968/jha, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 11 may 2016 and because the recommendation is not complete and outdated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the council proposal has many aspects which reduce efficiency and effectiveness and in practice limit europol's accountability. the points of friction in the sentence are: the proposal to merge europol and cepol. the possibility for the online content referencing unit to transfer publicly available personal data to private entities. 3. governance provisions which depart from the common approach for decentralised agencies. 4. eurojust will only have indirect access to information stored by europol.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the this resolution strengthens data protection in the field of police and judicial activities in the union and contributes to respecting and defending the rights of the european citizen. the adoption of the council's position at first reading was supported by my vote.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted against the amendment tabled by the efdd and the enf on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, traineeships, voluntary service, student exchanges or training programmes and employment of au pairs, because i am in favour of the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the european parliament and council directive. in view of the negative situation at european level with regard to immigration, this directive is an important step towards legal immigration and, by extension, towards exploiting its positive consequences.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is ironic that immigration from outside the union is a source of highly skilled people. young people in the member states face serious problems of unemployment and access to the skilled labour market. in greece and the countries of the south in particular, undergraduate and postgraduate students are forced either to flee their homelands or to work in undeclared, uninsured and uncertain jobs. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on immigration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is ironic that immigration from outside the union is a source of highly skilled people. young people in the member states face serious problems of unemployment and access to the skilled labour market. in greece and the countries of the south in particular, undergraduate and postgraduate students are forced either to flee their homelands or to work in undeclared, uninsured and uncertain jobs. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on immigration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for the above reasons, i am voting in favour of report a8-0166/2016.
ecr), in writing. ‒ referring to my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 11/5/2016, i note that i abstained from voting on the amendment rejecting the council position of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, traineeships, voluntary service, pupil exchanges or educational programmes and the employment of internally displaced persons, because it is not complete and outdated.
in writing. the fact that the eu's 'smart borders' are adapted to the needs of monopolies for cheap labour is confirmed by the directive adopted by the european parliament. while dublin is strengthening, thousands of people remain trapped in greece and refugees face closed borders, deportations. the eu is, with this directive, sorting out and opening up borders according to the needs of business groups, selecting: researchers, students, that is, the future skilled workers that european monopolies need to strengthen their position in competition with other american, asian, etc. monopolies and those who will offer all-round work for capital, such as in the context of 'paid and unpaid internships', 'voluntary service' and 'internal unpaid assistants', in the name of 'acquiring work experience' and 'promoting contacts between peoples ... and the opportunity for third-country nationals to improve their language skills'. as long as the economy is designed on the basis of profit, workers will move within and outside the eu in the interests of the monopolies. the peoples have experience and must make use of it by overthrowing, through their struggle, the power of the monopolies and building a socialised economy which puts the satisfaction of their needs rather than profit at the centre.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the young people in the member states face serious problems of unemployment and access to the skilled labour market. in greece and the countries of the south in particular, undergraduate and postgraduate students are forced either to flee their homelands or to work in undeclared, uninsured and uncertain jobs. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on immigration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ this report, adopted by a large majority of colleagues in the committee responsible for civil liberties, justice and home affairs, is the product of a wider consensus among political forces, as it encourages, among other things, the development of training and eu relations with third countries.
in writing. the fact that the eu's 'smart borders' are adapted to the needs of monopolies for cheap labour is confirmed by the directive adopted by the european parliament. while dublin is strengthening, thousands of people remain trapped in greece and refugees face closed borders, deportations. the eu is, with this directive, sorting out and opening up borders according to the needs of business groups, selecting: researchers, students, that is, the future skilled workers that european monopolies need to strengthen their position in competition with other american, asian, etc. monopolies and those who will offer all-round work for capital, such as in the context of 'paid and unpaid internships', 'voluntary service' and 'internal unpaid assistants', in the name of 'acquiring work experience' and 'promoting contacts between peoples ... and the opportunity for third-country nationals to improve their language skills'. as long as the economy is designed on the basis of profit, workers will move within and outside the eu in the interests of the monopolies. the peoples have experience and must make use of it by overthrowing, through their struggle, the power of the monopolies and building a socialised economy which puts the satisfaction of their needs rather than profit at the centre.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the above proposal on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy, which in some member states is the main source of public investment. the question put to the european commission, which led to this motion for a resolution, is intended to indicate the number and type of measures envisaged by the european commission to facilitate the implementation of operational programmes in order to avoid unwinding of funds, and how the european commission and the member states intend to speed up the implementation of cohesion policy.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ today's vote to speed up the implementation of eu cohesion policy is a generally positive step towards speeding up and simplifying procedures affecting europe's citizens. however, the references to the european semester and the plans for the use of financial instruments instead of public expenditure are not in my view. that is why i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the greek economy, after so many years of implementation of the memoranda of understanding, needs immediate and effective solutions to strengthen it. the eu structural and investment funds (esi funds), although providing a lot of money, do not really focus on creating permanent jobs but rather promote temporary solutions and half-measures, such as flexible forms of employment, and have a key objective of absorbing resources with beneficiaries being specific companies as well as ngos. we therefore vote against the motion for a resolution on cohesion policy, since it is based almost exclusively on the eu's structural and investment funds.
in writing. ‒ the the greek economy, after so many years of implementation of the memoranda of understanding, needs immediate and effective solutions to strengthen it. the eu structural and investment funds (esi funds), although providing a lot of money, do not really focus on creating permanent jobs, but rather promote temporary solutions and half-measures such as flexible forms of employment, and have a key objective of absorbing resources with beneficiaries being specific companies as well as ngos. i therefore vote against the motion for a resolution on cohesion policy, since it is based almost exclusively on the eu's structural and investment funds.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the main objective of the resolution is to speed up the effective implementation of cohesion policy in all eu regions. the report is positive, because it promotes a better cohesion policy with faster implementation, no delays in payments, more administrative capacity and sustainable development, but it does not cover me fully. i voted against because the report mentions certain structural reforms which i do not support.
ecr), in writing. ‒ referring to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 11 may 2016, i vote against the motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy because it is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu structural and investment funds (esi funds) do not really focus on creating permanent jobs, but rather promote temporary solutions and half measures. their main objective is to absorb resources with beneficiaries being certain large companies and ngos.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which takes account of the crucial importance of cohesion policy in the member states most affected by the crisis, such as greece. in the difficult period we are in, in which liquidity is a huge issue for many member states, we should make the greatest possible contribution to channelling european resources, which in many cases constitute the main part of public investment.
the commission the commission's communications, mr president, are a further reinforcement of the reactionary dublin regulation. the first country of reception, greece, is primarily responsible for asylum, and it is in this country that refugees and migrants will be trapped by force. your inhuman mechanisms of quotas, lockdowns, your guidelines to prevent so-called secondary movements, border repression, fences, are all things that feed the traffickers' circles and create a living hell for refugees and migrants. any refugee who does not comply with your reactionary regulations is threatened with consequences and fast-track rejection of his asylum application. the people and refugees should fight together to free themselves from the scourge of imperialist wars, the conditions and mechanisms of the european union and its governments that violate the geneva convention. to facilitate their safe movement to the countries of final destination and to ensure humane and dignified conditions of residence during their temporary stay in greece.
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the greek asylum service is currently trying, with just 280 staff, to manage the asylum applications that have skyrocketed since the european union-turkey refugee agreement, because everyone is asking to be recognised as a refugee in greece because they refuse to return to turkey. the situation is not manageable, however, as only 89 applications have been settled out of a total of 6,605 submitted so far. the new commission proposal on reforms to the common european asylum system has significant added value in de-escalating the pressure on specific member states, since the revision of the dublin system is clearly necessary. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the relocation and resettlement mechanisms, including on the implementation of the relocation and resettlement mechanisms, in order to ensure that the member states are able to take effective action to address the situation. one year later, given the failure of european solidarity in practice, the commission's proposal to legislate a financial solidarity contribution for those member states which refuse to accept refugees is more necessary than ever. it is a fair measure to be respected by all, with the clarification that it is not a fine or a penalty, nor is it a sanction, but a balancing measure aimed at the proportional and criterial distribution of the burdens of the refugee. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected and that the right to asylum is guaranteed.
s & d) and the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. if it had been implemented at the beginning of the refugee crisis, would we be in a better position? and the answer is certainly, yes, we would be even better off if frontex ii.0 had been implemented and had been in place and had been implemented, which we are preparing. this proposal, with all the additions it will receive from parliament, can be a clearly better intermediate stage until we arrive at a truly european response which can meet all the needs, but it is not in the interests of the member states as i understand it. and one question, since we have you here: we read that there's a "plan b": the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. does this have anything to do with reality?
the commission the european union has failed to deal with the issue of asylum and has left the handling of this issue, and of course the handling of all the problems, to the first countries of reception, namely italy and greece. but who should we protect, who should we grant asylum? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but how will we know which of all these asylum seekers are law-abiding citizens and not terrorists or other criminals? turkey, for example, issues hundreds of thousands of fake passports to those who come illegally to greece. who's to say which of these people, when they themselves are lying when and if they are ever recorded? and finally, we make one more mistake. we give asylum to those who seek work. and i ask my compatriot, mr. avramopoulos, what are we going to tell the unemployed greeks, who are about 30% of the population, that you are useless and we are taking foreigners from third countries to do our job?
the commission the dublin system for asylum has failed, mr president, by turning greece and italy into repositories of souls. but instead of abolishing dublin, and in particular the first country of entry criterion, it is finally maintained. mr. avramopoulos, greece cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants and you know it very well. the number of people trapped in our homeland is over 54,000. what about the famous relocation? of the 66,400 refugees who should have been resettled from greece to other countries of the european union, only 869 have been resettled. this means that, if one counts the numbers, it would take a hundred years to make the 66,400 relocations. that's what the bruegel foundation said. so we need a mandatory relocation system. the commission has also been working on the issue of the right of asylum in turkey. only 386 people have been deported. what about the experts you said would come from the european union to examine the thousands of asylum applications?
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe's asylum and migration policies have failed because they were built on the wrong foundations from the start. europe does not have the means, nor the will of its peoples, to welcome all those who wish to come here, hoping for a better life, benefiting from the absurd provision of benefits, at a time when our continent is experiencing a major economic crisis. we are already experiencing the social upheavals that have resulted from the policies you are implementing and the future holds even greater problems. especially when you choose to turn a blind eye to the reactions of the people or, even worse, when you try to label those who react as 'inhumane'. if we really want to solve this big problem, we must first redefine who is really entitled to asylum, because we all know that it has been abused by people who were never in any real danger, and, most importantly, we must stop western countries from constantly interfering in the internal affairs of third countries. it is the western countries that have bombed, overthrown, or tried to overthrow, and have invaded any country that did not align with their interests, following a clear neo-colonial policy.
gue/ngl), in writing. the presentation of the european commission's proposal for a revision of the common european asylum system is in itself a positive step, as it shows that the inadequacy of the current dublin regulation is now widely recognised. the basic direction of the proposal for a fairer system based on solidarity between member states, with the redistribution of asylum seekers from the member state of first entry, if it bears a disproportionate burden, to the other member states, is also correct. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion of equal opportunities is a step in the right direction. but beyond managing the flows of refugees, the european union must deal more seriously with their causes. refugees are not a natural phenomenon. it is the result of wars waged by some states in our wider geographical region against national minorities on their territory, such as the war of the semi-authoritarian erdoğan regime against the kurdish minority, or even the consequence of the action of criminal organizations such as the islamic state. we therefore need a new, common european foreign policy geared to the common european interest, that is to say, the interest of peace. we must do everything possible to give refugees the opportunity to return to their homes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the free movement of persons is one of the cornerstones of the european union and the creation of the schengen area has helped to make this freedom more effective. however, the pressure created at the external borders by the influx of migrants and refugees has led seven member states to reintroduce checks at some internal borders within this area. but since then circumstances have changed radically and, in particular, as regards greece, the country has taken decisive steps to control its external borders. the future of europe without schengen is at least doubtful. the reintroduction of borders between member states would cost european economies many billions of euros a year, with serious consequences, especially in the transport, trade and tourism sectors. furthermore, there are disadvantages that are not costed, such as the decline in the quality of life for the approximately two million european citizens who cross borders daily to commute to work. but regardless of the economic effects, the abolition of the schengen area would be a step backwards on the road to european integration. we therefore need the abolition of internal border controls, the sooner the better.
the commission the question today should be whether we really want to restore schengen to working order. given the structural weaknesses of the union, this treaty has proved to be very useful to various illegal arms, drugs, human trafficking and smuggling rings in general. the movement of extremist or terrorist groups from one member state to another, in order to escape the attention of the authorities, cannot be controlled in any way. apart from the security reasons which really call into question the need for schengen, we must also take into account the role played by this treaty in depriving the economically weaker countries of valuable scientific or skilled manpower which, with almost no obstacles, moves to northern and western europe condemning the countries of origin to permanent recession or even to a long delay in development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be very good to hear the interests of the peoples of europe alone, convincing arguments in favour of it, real arguments, not sentimentalism and ideology.
the commission the schengen area has been effectively abolished for months. germany, france, austria, denmark and sweden have suspended schengen. the commission's proposal today also legitimizes the official two-year suspension of schengen, which will lead to closed borders and turn greece into a vast refugee camp. so instead of relocating thousands of refugees from greece to the european union, greece is finally turning into a vast refugee camp. greece's participation in schengen has turned it into a magnet for the thousands of refugees in turkey, who would rather risk drowning in the aegean to reach greece than to go safely to bulgaria, which is not a schengen country. so they prefer greece, as a schengen country, which grants schengen travel documents and allows them to travel to germany. so the only solution for greece now is to leave schengen right now, to stop being a magnet for refugees. i have been proposing this since 11 december and it is time for it to be implemented.
the commission madam president, i ask to speak on a personal matter because the honourable member referred to me personally. i therefore explain to my colleague that i am one of those who have condemned both the dachau and the concentration camps, i am one of those who have clearly condemned these acts in my political life and for this reason i have also asked germany for compensation for the greeks who died in the nazi camps. so my position is clear. what i said, for the colleague to understand, is that when thousands of refugees are trapped in greece, they will be trapped... (the president interrupts the speaker)
s & d) and the madam president, commissioner, we all realise that you have some of the most complex portfolios and that this emergency, although temporary, is difficult to assess when it will be brought under control in all its dimensions. i would ask you to clarify a few things, since all countries should respect the agreements, but especially greece, which is undergoing dramatic and continuing austerity. what will the cost of protecting its external maritime borders be and how much is europe prepared to pay for it? could you also give us a timetable for the action of frontex and nato and tell us what the plan is for afterwards? also, if turkey's demands are not met, what are your main concerns and what do you think will happen to the people already trapped in greece? and a final question: can we also have a timetable for what will be the immediate restoration of schengen and the improvement of its functioning, as well as your assurance that there will be no exit of any country from schengen?
the commission in my recent speech, madam president, i referred to turkey, and i wanted to draw your attention to one single fact: turkey has not respected, and will never respect, any international agreement. i've been accused of racism and aggressive behavior. i have been sanctioned by schulz for having acted against davutoglu, the leader of a neighbouring state which is joining the union, and against the turkish nation and its religion. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, mr schulz, where is davutoglu now? your other privileged interlocutor, erdogan, removed him through authoritarian procedures. who are the turks and how do they treat their neighbours? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. how do sunni turks treat other religions? the closed theological school of halki, the persecuted shiites, alevis and christians give the answer. do we want turkey in the union? are we sure we want the turks to move freely within the schengen area? i'm not going to. as are many of you. i'm saying it out loud. you do that. schulz cannot dismiss the whole parliament!
the commission mr president, there is good news. the eu-turkey agreement has produced the first positive results. migration flows have been reduced to a minimum. but the european union found itself unprepared to take in a million refugees, when countries like lebanon, jordan and turkey, countries much poorer than the countries of the european union, have taken in six times as many migrants. there is no solidarity between european states, especially for the host countries, such as greece and italy. for visa exemption to turkey all criteria must be met: the 72 criteria, including the law on terrorism, by turkey, without any exception. mr president, the european parliament should not approve the visa for turkey unless all the criteria of the european union are met, unless the council of ministers has issued a formal opinion and unless we protect europe's borders effectively. the smart border package must go ahead, european borders are non-negotiable and will only be protected by european institutions and european states.
the commission mr president, the lifting of the visa requirement for turkish citizens is the latest blackmail by turkey against the european union. and of course the european union agreed, accepted him. for those who know both turkey and the european union, the attitude of both was to be expected. but the idea that turkey will be able to meet the 72 criteria by the end of june is a direct insult to our intelligence. how is it possible that in such a short time turkey can fulfil obligations it has not fulfilled for many years? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. is the non-recognition of the republic of cyprus and the illegal occupation of 37% of its territory progress? is there progress in the recent killings of syrian refugees by turkish soldiers, including women and children? finally, is it progress to flood the european union, the rest of europe, but also greece and cyprus, with hundreds of thousands of turks? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take part in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union.
s & d) and the mr president, as of last week, only 384 illegal immigrants have been returned from greece to turkey and 135 syrian refugees have been transferred to europe. the flows have indeed decreased, but this is due to the refusal of the refugees to risk their lives and spend a large sum of money and end up trapped in greece. i would like to ask the commissioner: the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and we are all aware of the fact that the european union is not a member of the european union, but that it is not a member of the european union. we would like to see a clear position from the commission on this.
ecr), in writing. the european commission, in the wake of the recent panama papers scandal and in order to tackle tax evasion affecting many eu member states, is placing particular emphasis on the automatic exchange of information between companies. in particular, the eu proposes to introduce country-by-country reporting for multinational groups of companies, as they are also the main actors in tax avoidance and evasion practices, eroding the respective national tax base. in addition, multinational companies should report in full the amount of income and profits before income tax. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used in the same way as the information provided by the member states. all eu countries should take measures to ensure that every company is taxed in the country where its profits are made, and not resort to tax havens - as was shown by the panama papers which revealed the creation of 214,000 offshore companies. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000.
the commission madam president, in an era of economic crisis, forced fiscal adjustment, merkel austerity and the dismantling of the welfare state, fighting inequalities and promoting sustainable and inclusive growth is a pipe dream. europe is full of armies of unemployed and poor people. the longterm unemployed in the european union number 12 million. unemployment in the memorandum greece reached 25%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the negotiations, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. the basic cause of inequality, however, is the unequal distribution of wealth itself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. in these circumstances, the indication of the country of origin on meat and milk cannot in itself ensure the health of consumers or the interests of small producers. the tip, the economic nato, with its restrictions will deal a decisive blow even to the indication of the country of origin. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production. in greece, where farmers are being uprooted, the abolition of the indication of origin for slices and olive trees is being carried out. also, the extended life of milk and cumulative imports are destroying the cattle farmers by dramatically lowering producer prices to the benefit of the industry's mega-cattle. monopolies, the common agricultural policy, the european union, ttip and governments must be the targets of the struggle of farmers for their survival and their future.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to the whole debate and i must say that i am not very convinced by the supporters of the new compulsory regulation. the basic argument that the majority of citizens want that, which has been used here, has a simple answer. it is possible for citizens to buy products bearing voluntary country of origin labels. after all, every consumer can choose what he wants from his product, what information he wants to have written on it. there is therefore no need to introduce new mandatory regulation from brussels, especially at a time when we are faced with new and new regulations and we are feeling more and more criticism of brussels from citizens. the argument about prices and the cost of prices is correct, i think. he also said that the cost of the products would be borne by the member states, which would have to check that the origin is sufficiently indicated on the products. that means it's going to be a cost for individual countries, individual states, not just the cost of products.
the commission mr president, according to eurobarometer, the vast majority of citizens in the european union consider it necessary to indicate the designation of origin of food products, particularly dairy products. the measures to protect agricultural products from unfair competition must be strengthened. this is the only way to preserve the traditional character of the product and the reputation of a geographical indication which is an intangible collective good. but unfortunately the european union has chosen to pursue a liberal agenda. in greece, at the moment, in the name of adapting to the oecd's toolbox, attempts are being made to produce yoghurt with milk powder. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis, and that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. the traditional greek yoghurt must be protected, as must the other agricultural products threatened by the ttip and other similar agreements aimed at deregulating the european market and abolishing products of designated origin, such as greek feta and cane olives.
the commission mr president, the hydroelectric sector produces between 15% and 20% of electricity in greece and in the european union as a whole, and employs some 80,000 people. it is, and will remain for several years, the first of the renewable energy sources and therefore plays a key role in achieving the objectives of horizon 2030. it is no coincidence that in the sale of ppps in greece, which is being attempted by the troika and the governments of the memorandum, hydroelectric dams are a first-class steak for potential investors. the hydropower sector, however, needs the necessary investments to remain competitive: investments in innovation, as well as in improving the efficiency of existing capacity, and in managing and preventing the environmental impacts of hydropower dams. these investments will never be made by private individuals looking for immediate and short-term profit. the greek hydroelectric dams must therefore remain under public control, away from the hands of the troika and the creditors, and solely for the benefit of the greek people and their welfare.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the legal protection of parental leave should be self-evident. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. also, given the increased medical monitoring needs for these children, it would be appropriate to grant additional leave days to their parents for as many years as needed. the greek civil service code introduces direct discrimination on grounds of sex, contrary to the employment equality directive, against fathers who are civil servants, in relation to the granting of parental leave. the greek legislation prohibits the granting of parental leave to male civil servants whose wives are not working. as for the private sector, parental leave can only be taken as a joke. we need to do more. the family is the cell upon which our nations are built and sustained every day. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. in the pursuit of happiness, of which the creation of a family is an integral part, assistance in the daily struggle for survival is also the introduction of long-term parental leave.
the commission mr president, the parental leave directive states: parent work and childrearing make a measurable contribution to the economy. the european union's real interest and hypocrisy are thus revealed. the reconciliation of women's professional and family life, in view of the specific features of their position, with a view to exploiting their work for greater profit. the hypocritical declarations are an attempt to cover up the labour jungle of the union with the complicity of the governments, as well as the greek one. motherhood is considered a cost. taking parental leave usually means dismissal or a demotion. the fight for a year's parental leave with full pay and social security, with a ban on dismissal, with special provisions for families with disabled children and, of course, with the awareness that only an economy that serves the needs of the people and not profits can combine equal work for women with the protection of motherhood, the family, which had been achieved in the socialist countries.
the commission mr president, we are discussing the framework agreement on parental leave, which is granted to male and female workers on the grounds of the birth or adoption of a child. in most european countries, unpaid or poorly paid parental leave involves low participation and is used even less by men than by women. in the european union in particular, only 10% of fathers take at least one day of parental leave, while 97% of women take parental leave intended for both parents. however, the european union should take immediate action to combat all forms of discrimination in relation to childcare and women's participation in the labour market and to encourage men to take on an equal share of family responsibilities with women. in addition, the remuneration paid during parental leave should be increased in order to reconcile work and family life in the member states of the union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr. president, women, men, children from every corner of the earth are being trapped in the world's dirty market, the human body market. it's a shocking phrase, but that's how modern-day slavers view their 27 million victims. over 880,000 are victims of trafficking in europe, but only 8,000 cases a year reach the authorities. only 1% of victims are rescued and very few traffickers are convicted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings, including the introduction of a new system of checks and controls on persons, the introduction of a new system of checks and controls on persons, the introduction of a new system of checks and controls on persons, the introduction of a new system of checks and controls on persons, the introduction of a new system of checks and controls on persons, the introduction of a new system of checks and controls on persons, the introduction of a new system of checks and controls on persons, the introduction of a new system of checks and controls on persons, the introduction of a new system of checks and controls on persons, and the introduction of a new system of checks and controls on persons. to put it simply: europe's refusal to open up legal pathways sends migrants into the arms of smugglers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the adoption of the bearder report must send a clear message that europe must end its complicity in this inhumane trade in souls.
the commission mr president, commissioner, you know that the exploitation of people for profit is today the most common, dangerous and heinous form of international organized crime, especially since we know that it is worth billions: 3 billion is the turnover per year. the european legislation is adequate both for safeguarding rights and for preventing and suppressing crime and for protecting victims, but there are problems in its implementation and, above all, in identifying potential future victims, because the complaints are not sufficient. they create taboos, impossible structures, victim-self-victimization, and the result is that statistics are incomplete. we must give incentives to report, especially young girls and women, this heinous crime. focus on empowering women and weak social structures, removing inequalities that have the stronger versus the weaker false flag, and most importantly, raising public awareness. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe, and it is also a political union of the peoples of europe.
the commission mr president, human trafficking is considered one of the most serious crimes in the world and constitutes a serious violation of human rights. globally, 70% of trafficking victims are women, especially young girls, while in the european union for the period 2010-2012, this figure reached approximately 80%. of course, human trafficking can take many forms, such as sexual exploitation, forced labor, organ harvesting, and forced begging. in addition, the number of victims of trafficking in persons from minority groups is disproportionately high, due to the marginalization of these citizens. the huge flows of refugees and migrants are exacerbating the problem of trafficking in human beings, especially children. it is therefore necessary for each member state of the union to have appropriate mechanisms in place to prevent and, at the same time, identify victims in a timely manner and provide them with assistance in cooperation with specific support groups. at the same time, gender inequality should be addressed and the independence of women, especially young girls, promoted, so as to make them less vulnerable to trafficking in human beings.
the commission madam president, the systematic violation of human rights in the gambia is a daily phenomenon. in april, peaceful protests began in the capital banjul, demanding transparency for the december 2016 elections. during these protests, opposition leader solo sandeng was arrested and died in custody. then there was a second wave of protests that led to a new round of repression. these cases are not new to the gambia, which is one of the 15 poorest countries in the world and a quarter of its population is chronically food insecure. moreover, under the regime of yahya jammeh, who has been in power since 1994, there have been many disappearances, politically motivated killings, and security forces and paramilitary groups have been accused of human rights violations. the european union must take immediate action to stop the suppression of human rights in the gambia.
for the ppe group. madam president, i welcome this motion for a resolution which responds to the elections held in that country in april of this year, which were won for the fourth time by president guelleh, whom i personally consider to be one of the key figures in the problems and tragedies that are taking place in djibouti today. it is therefore right that we have on the table a resolution in which we want and ask, as does the international community, to have an examination of how this election, where the president won 87%, and according to all the documents, celebrated victory even before the election was over and the votes were counted, was conducted. we need to put pressure on this president, who has repeatedly extended his mandate through constitutional amendments, to address the problems of this small state, the problems that have been mentioned here: the enormous poverty, the position of women in society, the suppression of political opposition, the fundamental impossibility of women's emancipation. so i support the resolution.
the commission madam president, djibouti, despite being inhabited by some 864,000 people and having little land and no natural resources, is an important base for foreign military forces. djibouti is characterized by high unemployment and widespread poverty, and is a transit point for thousands of african migrants. the government of the country is also responsible for many cases of human rights violations. in particular, in the 2013 elections, the government violently suppressed the protests of opposition parties, resulting in several deaths. protesters questioned the legitimacy of the elections, resulting in mass arrests and subsequent reports of suspected deaths, torture and disappearances. given that women in djibouti face various forms of violence and there are many cases of lack of freedom of speech, there should be pressure from the european union to stop the suppression of rights in the country. djibouti has signed the un international covenant on economic and cultural rights and should abide by it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, because tax transparency is a key element in the fight against tax evasion.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on the proposal for a council directive on the compulsory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. i believe that this is a particularly important issue for streamlining the functioning of the union and for better monitoring of economic activities within its territory. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's amendments to the commission proposal to the council on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation propose an obligation for member states to give access to the information exchanged (between the tax authorities of the member states) to the commission. this situation will result in the commission's monitoring, supervision and unacceptable involvement in this area as well. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's amendments to the commission proposal to the council on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation propose an obligation for member states to give access to the information exchanged (between the tax authorities of the member states) to the commission. this situation will result in the commission's monitoring, supervision and unacceptable involvement in this area as well. for these reasons, i am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the amendment of the directive on administrative cooperation, with regard to tax information, by introducing country-by-country reporting for multinational groups. the proposal reflects an ambitious aim to improve the existing framework towards transparency. even if it contains some limitations, given the fact that only multinationals with a total consolidated revenue equal or above eur 750 million will be obliged to submit the country-by-country reports, it is a positive step forward, in order to counter aggressive tax planning. therefore, i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. the statement in the preamble to the directive that 'tax rules must be designed in such a way as not to create obstacles to growth or investment, not to create competitive disadvantages for union undertakings ... and also ... to minimise the costs and administrative burden of undertakings' reveals the essence of the directive. the tax policy of the eu and governments serves precisely the fundamental strategy of enhancing the profitability of capital in every way. the fact that the directive concerns a very small part of international monopolies, those with a turnover of over 750 million euros, also reveals the extent of the deception of the declarations on combating tax evasion and tax avoidance by companies. the eu and the bourgeois governments of its member states, at the same time as they legislate by the dictates of the bourgeois law the exemption of capital from taxes and obligations with "development" and a host of other laws of provocative tax exemptions, subsidies and subsidies to business groups, such as the syriza-anel coalition government in greece, plunder the meager popular income with unbearable direct and indirect taxation, reduction of wages and pensions, abolition of social rights. the working people must get rid of the mockery of "just distribution of burdens" in capitalism, demanding the socialization of monopolies and the wealth they produce.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the report by mr rosati covers a major issue, not only for the eu but also globally, which is why it has received the broadest positive response in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i also voted in favour of it.
in writing. the statement in the preamble to the directive that 'tax rules must be designed in such a way as not to create obstacles to growth or investment, not to create competitive disadvantages for union undertakings ... and also ... to minimise the costs and administrative burden of undertakings' reveals the essence of the directive. the tax policy of the eu and governments serves precisely the fundamental strategy of enhancing the profitability of capital in every way. the fact that the directive concerns a very small part of international monopolies, those with a turnover of over 750 million euros, also reveals the extent of the deception of the declarations on combating tax evasion and tax avoidance by companies. the eu and the bourgeois governments of its member states, at the same time as they legislate by the dictates of the bourgeois law the exemption of capital from taxes and obligations with "development" and a host of other laws, provocative tax exemptions, subsidies and subsidies to business groups, such as the syriza-anel coalition government in greece, plunder the poor people's income with unacceptable direct and indirect taxation, reduction of wages and pensions, abolition of social rights. the working people must get rid of the mockery of "just distribution of burdens" in capitalism, demanding the socialization of monopolies and the wealth they produce.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the resolution referred to above refers to the importance of the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in catering and retail trade. the incorrect or inappropriate labelling of fishery products is a clear breach of the rules of the common fisheries policy, misleading consumers and their health and hampering the position of producers of fishery products. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling on the european commission and the member states to take decisive action to improve information, traceability and controls in the interests of consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in catering and retail trade is clearly an attempt to strengthen quality controls aimed at protecting the health of citizens and improving catering and trade structures. i think that such measures are in the interests of the european citizens, and i therefore voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution as it provides for the creation of a strong traceability system, from landing to consumption, which will inspire confidence in consumers and, consequently, reduce trade dependence on imported fishery and aquaculture products, thereby strengthening the eu market.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution as it provides for the creation of a strong traceability system, from landing to consumption, which will inspire confidence in consumers and, consequently, reduce trade dependence on imported fishery and aquaculture products, thereby strengthening the eu market.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in catering and retail trade for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 9 may 2016 and because this motion for a resolution is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this motion for a resolution provides for the creation of a robust traceability system from landing to consumption, which will inspire consumer confidence and thus reduce trade dependence on imported fishery and aquaculture products, thereby strengthening the eu market.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the vote on the cadec resolution, which strengthens both the internal market for fisheries and aquaculture and consumer confidence.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on china's market economy status is a further step in developing and strengthening europe's economic ties with china. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ china as a sovereign state has chosen to intervene in the economy and trade, so the eu must resist any process that undermines the economic interests of its member states. the commission also found that the exporting producers in the prc were not able to demonstrate that the measures were in line with the requirements of the union industry.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against all the reports on china's market economy regime as china, as a sovereign state, has chosen to intervene in the economy and trade, therefore the eu must resist any process that undermines the economic interests of its member states. the commission also found that the exporting producers in the prc were not able to demonstrate that the measures were in line with the requirements of the union industry.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the proposal to bake china into a market economy is a current issue. when china joined the wto, it did not yet have market economy status. so she was given the power to change her regime in 15 years. but china has not yet reached the point where it meets all five criteria set by the european union for economic status. that is why i voted in favour of the proposal, which is intended to signal to china that it must make a further effort in the eu to protect its market and its companies.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on china's market economy regime for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 11 may 2016, and because this joint motion for a resolution is complete and well-founded.
in writing. the resolution calling on the eu commission and council not to recognise china as a market economy within the wto and to take trade defence measures on chinese imports into the eu, expresses the sharpening of the confrontation between the eu monopolies and their chinese counterparts, as well as the brics monopolies in general. this prospect is of serious concern to large eu monopoly groups, particularly those active in manufacturing industries such as steel, where chinese capitalist groups are strengthening their position against their eu counterparts. competitions are further complicated by intra-bourgeois contradictions in the eu, with other sections of capital wishing to boost trade with china, looking ahead to its large capital market. monopolies, the eu, bourgeois governments and parties, employers' and reformist trade unions are trying to throw the working class into the interests of the capitalists in the conflict with its competitors. but the war between the monopolies, the increase in their competitiveness, presupposes the greatest erosion of the wage, labour and social rights of the working class. it is in the interests of the working class to raise its own flags, fighting to overthrow the power of the monopolies, to become the owner of the wealth it produces.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ china as a sovereign state has chosen to intervene in the economy and trade, so the eu must resist any process that undermines the economic interests of its member states. the commission also found that the exporting producers in the prc were not able to demonstrate that the measures were in line with the requirements of the union industry.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the eu must safeguard the interests of industry and its production within the european market and internationally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i signed the resolution and, of course, voted for it.
in writing. the resolution calling on the eu commission and council not to recognise china as a market economy within the wto and to take trade defence measures on chinese imports into the eu, expresses the sharpening of the confrontation between the eu monopolies and their chinese counterparts, as well as the brics monopolies in general. this prospect is of serious concern to large eu monopoly groups, particularly those active in manufacturing industries such as steel, where chinese capitalist groups are strengthening their position against their eu counterparts. competitions are further complicated by intra-bourgeois contradictions in the eu, with other sections of capital wishing to boost trade with china, looking ahead to its large capital market. monopolies, the eu, bourgeois governments and parties, employers' and reformist trade unions are trying to throw the working class into the interests of the capitalists in the conflict with its competitors. but the war between the monopolies, the increase in their competitiveness, presupposes the greatest erosion of the wage, labour and social rights of the working class. it is in the interests of the working class to raise its own flags, fighting to overthrow the power of the monopolies, to become the owner of the wealth it produces.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the follow-up and progress of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is a positive attempt to analyse the results and progress of the 2030 agenda as set out in previous debates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the this report proposes that the eu act as a protagonist on the international stage to eradicate poverty in all its dimensions. this requires a significant and specific outflow of financial resources, equivalent to 0.7% of the gross national product of the member states. the aim should be to focus the union on the issue of eradicating poverty and destitution in its member states, particularly those in the south, and to respect the sovereign right of national governments to make decisions for the benefit of their citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the this report proposes that the eu act as a protagonist on the international stage to eradicate poverty in all its dimensions. this requires a significant and specific outflow of financial resources, equivalent to 0.7% of the gross national product of the member states. the aim should be to focus the union on the issue of eradicating poverty and destitution in its member states, particularly those in the south, and to respect the sovereign right of national governments to make decisions for the benefit of their citizens. for these reasons, i am voting against the follow-up action and the development of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because it calls on the european union to make full use of the multiannual financial framework to safeguard financial mechanisms and on the member states to reiterate their commitment to 0.7% of gni for official development assistance and to submit a timetable for gradually increasing development assistance to reach 0.7%.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the follow-up and review of the 2030 agenda for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 10 may 2016 and because this motion for a resolution is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the this report proposes that the eu act as a protagonist on the international stage to eradicate poverty in all its dimensions. this requires a significant and specific outflow of financial resources, equivalent to 0.7% of the gross national product of the member states. the aim should be to focus the union on the issue of eradicating poverty and destitution in its member states, particularly those in the south, and to respect the sovereign right of national governments to make decisions for the benefit of their citizens.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, which i have co-signed. the text reflects the global framework for sustainable development and the eu's overall strategy for achieving the objectives of agenda 2030.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foodstuffs is a positive but necessary step towards protecting consumers in europe. as we all know that there are increased risks due to increased possibilities for importing products from areas where insufficient controls are carried out, i believe that such efforts are in the interests of european citizens and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted against this report because we agree with the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for all types of milk, milk products and meat products for consumption. we also agree to intensify checks, improve the application of existing legislation and impose stricter penalties to prevent all kinds of food scandals and fraud. the health of european citizens is a priority and must be protected.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report as i agree with the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for all types of milk, milk products and meat products for consumption. i also agree with the intensification of checks, the improvement of the application of the legislation in force and the imposition of stricter penalties to avoid all kinds of food scandals and fraud. the health of european citizens is a priority and must be protected.
in writing. – i fully support this motion, as it contains a detailed analysis of the key points of the commission’s reports of may 2015 regarding the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods, and adopts a critical approach towards its conclusions. the commission’s reluctance to proceed to a decision on mandatory country of origin labelling is based on some elements that need to be reviewed. it seems that this stance overstates the costs and the administrative burdens of origin labelling to business and does not take into account the high proportion of citizens (80%) who consider it necessary to indicate the origin of some products, especially milk whether sold as such or used as an ingredient in dairy products. given the tremendous number of scandals regarding food safety, there is a clear need to focus on the consumer’s information and protection.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 11 may 2016 and because the motion for a resolution in question is complete and well-founded.
in writing. the resolution on the indication of the country of origin of milk and meat in the processed products concerned deliberately limits its scope to a small portion of these products, on the basis of their low degree of processing (cheese, yoghurt, bacon, etc.), because, as it expressly states, it does not want to impose a financial burden on food monopolies. the european parliament has demonstrated for the first time that it is willing to sacrifice the health and even the lives of workers in the name of profits. the kke group voted in favour of this limited obligation to indicate the country of origin, noting that international agreements drawn up by the eu, such as ceta with canada and the forthcoming ttip, are abolishing traditional greek names of origin, such as feta or kalamos olives, to the detriment of small producers and to the benefit of multinational food companies. the resolution is, of course, critical of these, as it is of the eu cap which is destroying poor and middle-class farmers and small farmers by concentrating land and production in agro-capitalist enterprises, of government measures such as that of syriza-anel in greece to extend the shelf life of fresh milk and the production of yoghurt from milk powder which is targeted at small farmers in order to serve the interests of the large companies in the sector.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for all types of milk, milk products and meat products intended for human consumption is moving in the right direction. we also agree to intensify checks, improve the application of existing legislation and impose stricter penalties to prevent all kinds of food scandals and fraud. the health of european citizens is a priority and must be protected.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the geographical indication is a major achievement in the european internal market. it enhances food quality and protects consumers. i have voted in favour of this resolution, for the benefit of the consumer, the producer and the quality of our agricultural products.
in writing. the resolution on the indication of the country of origin of milk and meat in the processed products concerned deliberately limits its scope to a small portion of these products, on the basis of their low degree of processing (cheese, yoghurt, bacon, etc.), because, as it expressly states, it does not want to impose a financial burden on food monopolies. the european parliament has demonstrated for the first time that it is willing to sacrifice the health and even the lives of workers in the name of profits. the kke group voted in favour of even this limited obligation to indicate the country of origin, noting that international agreements drawn up by the eu, such as ceta with canada and the upcoming ttip under negotiation, abolish traditional greek names of origin, such as feta or kalamoni olives, to the detriment of small producers and to the benefit of multinational food companies. the resolution is, of course, critical of these, as it is of the eu cap which is destroying poor and middle-class farmers and small farmers by concentrating land and production in the hands of agro-capitalist enterprises, of government measures such as that of syriza-anel in greece to extend the shelf life of fresh milk and of the preparation of yoghurt from milk powder which is being used by small farmers to serve the interests of the large companies in the sector.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of council directive 2010/18/eu of 8 march 2010 on the implementation of the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded by businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and etuc and repealing directive 96/34/ec, as the modernisation and coherence of the different types of leave in the eu is necessary to ensure gender equality, increase women's participation in the labour market and ensure work-life balance.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted today to implement the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded by businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and etuc, and to repeal directive 96/34/ec. it is true that european legislation on parental leave needs to be updated as citizens' rights and equality issues arise. as this report points to the need to improve the existing framework for the benefit of the citizens, i consider it a positive step and that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am obliged to vote against this report, even though it has many positive points, as the empl committee, using the trojan horse method, is trying to pass off same-sex couples as a family model. i'm from a super-traditional family where responsibilities are shared equally.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am obliged to vote against this report, even though it has many positive points, as the empl committee, using the trojan horse method, is trying to pass off same-sex couples as a family model. i'm all for a traditional family where responsibilities are shared equally.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which aims to assess the application of the legislation on parental leave and draw the appropriate legal and political conclusions. given the economic and social landscape currently emerging in europe, it is necessary to update this legislation to respond both to these challenges and to the work-life balance effort. equal access to the labour market goes beyond a better division of responsibilities between men and women and contributes to economic recovery
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the implementation of council directive 2010/18/eu of 8 march 2010 on the implementation of the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded by businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and etuc and repealing directive 96/34/ec for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 12/5/2016 and because the report is complete and well-founded.
in writing. the agreement between european capitalists and the trade unions of european employers' and trade unionism (business europe etuc ses), which the report assesses, is contrary to the needs of working class families, serves the strategy of reducing the price of labour power. the report's assessment that 'parent work and childrearing make a measurable contribution to the economy' reveals the eu's real interest in protecting the interests of monopolies. the kke group in the european parliament welcomed the proposals to extend and extend parental leave to both parents. but it stresses that eu and government policy uses the construction of the 'work/family life balance' as a vehicle for cheap and unrighteous female labour that multiplies capitalist profits. eu and city governments restrict entitlements, shrink benefits - like those for motherhood - to make them less costly to the state and employers. the emergence of the problem in the context of the demographic problem is linked to the demand of capital for cheap, technically adapted labour for its needs. only production that serves the needs of the people today and not profit can combine equal work for women with the protection of motherhood, the popular family, the achievement of socialism that we have known.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report, using the trojan horse method, is trying to pass off gay couples as a model family, which we are totally opposed to.
in writing. the agreement between european capitalists and the trade unions of european employers' and trade unionism (business europe etuc ses), which the report assesses, is contrary to the needs of working class families, serves the strategy of reducing the price of labour power. the report's assessment that 'parent work and childrearing make a measurable contribution to the economy' reveals the eu's real interest in protecting the interests of monopolies. the kke group in the european parliament welcomed the proposals to extend and extend parental leave to both parents. but it stresses that eu and government policy uses the construction of the 'work/family life balance' as a vehicle for cheap and unrighteous female labour that multiplies capitalist profits. eu and city governments restrict entitlements, shrink benefits - like those for motherhood - to make them less costly to the state and employers. the emergence of the problem in the context of the demographic problem is linked to the demand of capital for cheap, technically adapted labour for its needs. only production that serves the needs of the people today and not profit can combine equal work for women with the protection of motherhood, the popular family, the achievement of socialism that we have known.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of directive 2011/36/eu of 5 april 2011 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims on the basis of their gender, as there is an urgent need to identify and support victims and to impose stricter penalties on traffickers and those who exploit victims.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on the implementation of the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and on the protection of victims of trafficking on the basis of their gender. it is obvious that such reports raise issues of particular importance for the protection of european citizens. as the issue of trafficking in human beings continues to be a serious problem for humanity, europe can and must seek to tackle it in the most effective way. that is why i supported this report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ trafficking in human beings constitutes a flagrant violation of fundamental rights, and a violation of human dignity and the physical and psychological integrity of individuals. we are opposed to the report because it tries to insinuate migrants into the society of european countries and pays little attention to the real definition of human trafficking and abuse that is affecting europe after the mass influx of migrants.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ trafficking in human beings constitutes a flagrant violation of fundamental rights, and a violation of human dignity and the physical and psychological integrity of individuals. i am against the report, however, because it tries to insinuate migrants into the society of european countries and pays little attention to the real definition of human trafficking and abuse, which is affecting europe after the mass influx of migrants.
in writing. – despite the provisions of the existing directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings (thb), human trafficking is still a reality. statistics show clearly that the majority of victims are women and girls. i believe that in order to tackle this crucial issue, there is a clear need to identify the victims better and to offer them the support they need, having particular regard to refugees who are vulnerable to thb. the present report aims to strengthen the scope of the directive by combining criminal activities with a strong gender dimension. therefore, i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the implementation of directive 2011/36/eu of 5 april 2011 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims on the basis of their gender, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 12 may 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. the resolution skillfully obscures the root cause of the phenomenon, namely the capitalist mode of production which, by using labour power as a commodity, turns people themselves into commodities. it isolates "organized crime" as the sole cause, concealing that it operates by the rules of capitalist enterprise in the exploitative system, which recognizes profit as its only supreme value. it delegates the solution of the problem to anti-people eu and government repressive mechanisms such as europol, recommends for the support of victims, greater funding of suspects often for the action of ngos, instead of supporting state infrastructure and services. the policy of the eu and of bourgeois governments is shaping the barbaric reality experienced by women in the popular strata. it establishes prostitution as the ultimate form of the commercialization and exploitation of human existence as a profession, and its separation into voluntary and forced, exploits forced prostitution to expand the legal one. the european parliament's group of the european people's party (epp) has put its finger on the problem, stressing that in a world dominated by monopolies there is absolutely no concern about any form of commercialisation of human life. that is why the peoples must overthrow them by abolishing the exploitation of man by man.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ trafficking in human beings constitutes a flagrant violation of fundamental rights, and a violation of human dignity and the physical and psychological integrity of individuals. the report, however, is intended to insinuate illegal immigrants into the society of european countries, ignoring the real problem, which is the rapid deterioration of the living conditions of european citizens after the mass invasion of the member states of the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution by voting in favour. the safeguarding and protection of human rights and the defence of human dignity are non-negotiable.
in writing. the resolution skillfully obscures the root cause of the phenomenon, namely the capitalist mode of production which, by using labour power as a commodity, turns people themselves into commodities. it isolates "organized crime" as the sole cause, concealing that it operates by the rules of capitalist enterprise in the exploitative system, which recognizes profit as its only supreme value. it delegates the solution of the problem to anti-people eu and government repressive mechanisms such as europol, recommends for the support of victims, greater funding of suspects often for the action of ngos, instead of supporting state infrastructure and services. the policy of the eu and of bourgeois governments is shaping the barbaric reality experienced by women in the popular strata. it establishes prostitution as the ultimate form of the commercialization and exploitation of human existence as a profession, and its separation into voluntary and forced, exploits forced prostitution to expand the legal one. the european parliament's group of the european people's party (epp) has put its finger on the problem, stressing that in a world dominated by monopolies there is absolutely no concern about any form of commercialisation of human life. that is why the peoples must overthrow them by abolishing the exploitation of man by man.
the commission madam president, the digital single market could indeed help to stimulate the european economy, to significantly increase the union's gdp and to create thousands of new jobs. however, this integration will have to be accompanied by substantial investment in research and development in information and communication technologies, where the european union is lagging dramatically behind the united states and japan. this is because the union's economic model is based on the euro pact, i.e. it supports the competitiveness of the european continent by the chineseisation of wages. in greece, the third memorandum adds new obstacles to the efforts to develop the digital economy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. in order to facilitate the repayment of the alleged debt, a new 5% charge was added to the fixed telephone and internet services, and even earlier than scheduled. this mockery must finally come to an end.
gue/ngl), in writing. the european commission's communication on the alleged upgrading of the single market contains pompous announcements which do not correspond to reality. there can be no level playing field when member states, or at least many of them, give various opportunities to multinational companies in particular to legally avoid taxes at the expense of other member states. we therefore need to harmonize tax legislation and a pan-european deposit guarantee scheme in order to eliminate the uncertainty that is undermining banking systems, particularly in the mediterranean member states and especially in greece. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the commission should not be telling us the advantages of not being active in the single market, but instead should be proposing concrete measures to reduce these glaring disparities in a spirit of solidarity between the member states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one.
the commission madam president, the g7 conference is unable to provide solutions to the problems of the world economy, as it persists in austerity and continues to support the casino economy. in a multipolar world the smug g7 format cannot provide answers to the modern economy without taking into account the rising power of brics the european union must also take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the benefits of the single market, and that the european union is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the citizens of the union are able to enjoy the benefits of the single market. that is why we do not trust the conclusions of the forthcoming g7 meeting on greek debt, as yesterday's eurogroup decision confirms that greece's creditors are 'stealing the bull twice'. so instead of the european union and the imf cutting greece's so-called debt and settling the payment of the balance with a growth clause, as they have already done in the case of ukraine, they finally refuse to reduce the nominal debt, demand austerity measures and continuous fiscal adjustment, as well as a continuous sale of public property for ninety-nine years.
the commission mr president, one of the greatest dangers posed to modern man by the rapid development of technology is the interception of personal data from social networking sites and their processing by unauthorized persons. in the united states in particular, this danger has taken on enormous dimensions, because the legislation itself allows the intelligence services, the cia and the national security agency, to collect, process and retain this kind of information, sometimes for a period of more than five years. in the name of the national interest of the united states, these services may collect and process information not only on americans but also on citizens of other countries, including their own countries. but this is a violation of human rights, it undermines the right to the protection of personal data, it makes it difficult to conduct electronic commerce and it creates legal uncertainty for businesses and individuals. the european union should therefore take appropriate measures to ensure that the dialogue with the united states on the regulation of the terms of the privacy shield brings about improvements that will ensure the protection of data of european citizens who are doing business with the united states. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. so, then, both are required. and try not to get to that point, but when there's a data breach, yes, we should have sanctions.
the commission madam president, data protection and privacy are fundamental rights of the citizens of the union and every measure should be taken to ensure that they are not infringed. as regards transatlantic data flows, the european union and the united states have signed an agreement on the protection of privacy and legal certainty for businesses in the event of transfers of data from the union to the us. however, as set out in the new arrangement, us public authorities are supposed to have access to personal data and are supposed to do so under restrictions and supervision, so that there is no generalised access. at the same time, europeans should have the right to request an investigation or to lodge a complaint in the event of a breach of their personal data. however, it is necessary to specify the cases of access to personal data by us public authorities and to strike a balance between security and freedom. the protection of data in any transatlantic flow should be protected and not subordinated to the pursuits of the security services of the united states.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the drug in the treatment of patients with endocrine disorders. endocrine disruptors are chemicals that interfere with the hormonal system and cause fertility disorders, tumors and various forms of cancer. these substances are present in many products that consumers use every day, but they are not even aware of their presence in these products. they're in toys, food, even water. it is a matter of concern to the commission that the commission has not taken any action to protect the public health of european consumers, which it should have done. measures should therefore be taken for the authorisation and restrictions of those substances in products. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament.
the commission in my recent question to the commission, madam president, i raised the issue of the inability to identify people entering the union's external borders. in particular, many do not have identification documents and many refuse to give fingerprints. i therefore asked the commission whether it would equip the host authorities with facial recognition systems. with these, the identification or confirmation of an individual is done through a digital photograph or film and the comparison of selected features of an individual's face with a facial database. the commissioner's response was that the commission would evaluate and explore further technical and legal options. such systems can be installed at all external and critical cross-border control points. the sources of data and information are inexhaustible and can easily be interfaced with existing eurodac, ais and vis systems, as well as with europol and member states' intelligence databases. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european union's accession to the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commissioner, i listened to your speech with interest. i very much welcome the fact that the digital agenda of your commission is not only about the digitalisation of the internal market, but that the other area, the public sector, is equally important, and that the action plan you have spoken of clearly states how public administration should be digitalised. i think this is extremely important because if we were to just digitise the internal market, and introduce online sales promotion here, and so on, but the public sector started to lag behind, then it wouldn't work very well in practice. i see in my own country, the czech republic, that small and medium-sized businesses are taking advantage of online sales in a very significant way. we're the best in europe, but we're at the bottom of the public sector. so please, if possible, put pressure on individual national governments to pay attention to this issue, because the whole digitization, that is, the public and private sectors together, can only be successful in this way.
the commission mr president, in order to have cross-border and secure electronic transactions within the member states of the union, there must be rules on electronic identification. european citizens should therefore be able to use their own electronic identification systems to access public services in other countries of the union. it is true that the existence of many databases that are not interconnected can create additional costs and put at risk the security and protection of personal data. the first thing to be done is to ensure that public services and public administration operate smoothly alongside e-government. moreover, providers of electronic identity verification services to other public sector bodies and systems should aim to reduce costs and make life easier for european citizens.
the commission mr president, because in the 21st century, with such technological development, while energy is fuelling rivalries and wars, more and more households are condemned to energy poverty. but the capitalist road, the european union's policy of liberalising and privatising energy, is a class policy, meaning profits for the big industrialists and poverty for the households. the greek government's decision to reduce the tax on natural gas for industry, while increasing the same tax on households in the midst of a tax storm, further reducing wages and pensions with the 3rd and 4th, without end, greek memorandum, is characteristic. the report calls for energy democracy and recommends that energy be produced by consumers themselves, i.e. a liberalisation that is supposedly pro-people. there is no good and bad liberation, it is always in favour of the monopolies. only with a different economy, workers' power, can energy from a commodity become a popular right to meet modern needs. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
the commission mr president, in greece, mr šefčovič, where you were a few days ago, the energy costs for consumers are not borne by a lack of competition, but by excessive taxes, which is a matter for which the troika and the memoranda bear a great deal of responsibility. energy poverty affects, according to a study by the european parliament, 36% of greek households. last winter, 100,000 households were without, or at risk of being without, electricity. as if this 3rd memorandum were not enough, it added huge increases in taxes on heating oil and kerosene, increases that only reduce consumption and state revenues, while imposing, at the same time, energy insecurity and burning of unsuitable heating materials, which led to smog in many parts of greece. i have asked written questions on all this, but i have not received any answers. in a debate at itre last january, mr cañete pledged to look at the issue of overtaxation on a pan-european basis. what about this one? are you going to give clear and documented answers or are you going to continue to hide? i want an answer, please.
ecr), in writing. in the period of the financial crisis we are going through, and especially in the countries impoverished by the memoranda, women are the biggest victims, since their rights are being violated every day both in social and in the workplace. according to recent eurostat data, the number of women in poverty exceeds that of men, with 64.6 million women in poverty compared to 57.6 million men. in general, women in most eu member states are more affected than men - especially when it comes to mothers and pensioners, and they are overrepresented in parttime and precarious jobs. in order to end gender inequalities and reduce high poverty rates, the eu should end the austerity policies it imposes on its member countries. the forcible fiscal adjustment applied to greece under the third memorandum is further exacerbating gender inequalities and irreparably damaging women's rights.
the commission madam president, the single european market has greatly strengthened the large enterprises and industries of the north. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary reforms. in the present situation, with germany's record surpluses on the one hand and the huge deficits caused by these surpluses in the south on the other, non-tariff barriers are the last stand for many southern industries before they disappear altogether. the only thing that the further deregulation under discussion will achieve is a rapid increase in inequalities between member states. the myth that deregulation stimulates growth and creates jobs must finally be put to rest. the political decisions of the european union cannot be guided by myths. non-tariff barriers and restrictions are tools for states to control and direct their economies independently. subsidiarity and respect for multi-level governance are recognised principles of the european union and the single market strategy must respect them.
i would like to draw the attention of the commission representative to the new french law on the application of the minimum wage and other social rules to transport workers, called the 'macron law', which many believe is fundamentally discriminatory against foreign carriers by imposing a whole series of administrative obligations on them. it thus ultimately restricts access to the french transport services market. i think it would be right for the commission to initiate a review of this french law and examine whether it is compatible with the treaties, in particular article 56 which governs the free movement of services. the commission is already doing this for a similar law in force in germany, the milog, and i think it is right that this french law should also be examined in this way in this procedure.
the commission madam president, today's eurogroup decision on greece imposes a new supplementary memorandum and strict indefinite surveillance. it imposes taxation on the incomes and real estate of the greek people, the troika's control of public revenues, the sale of energy resources, the taking over of the management of banks by foreigners and the sale of red loans to crows. it imposes primary surpluses from 2018 of 3,5% of gdp, which will go towards the annual repayment of the defaults. moreover, instead of returning to greece the ecb and the euro area central banks' gains on the €10 billion of greek bonds for the period 2014-2020, these eventually return back to the esm's pockets, while €19.5 billion from the third loan package will be given to cover possible losses of the first loan package's lenders due to interest rate cuts and extension. the greek people, however, cannot tolerate national humiliation and the loss of national sovereignty any longer. that's why we will fight united to throw the troika out of our country and take back greece.
the commission madam president, yesterday the eurogroup, in assessing the third greek memorandum, rewarded, as did the representatives of capital, the anti-people barbarism of the syriza-anel government, a continuation of the new democracy and pasok memoranda. he exposed the government's lies by confirming the communist party of greece. the descent doesn't end. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. after the insurance demolition, the tax evasion, the privatizations, the automatic cut of wages and pensions, follow measures for mass layoffs, strike strike collective agreements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the way out of the recession, the recovery of capitalist profits sought by the european union and capital with subsidies, tax breaks and privileges on it, is not about the people. they involve a sweep of his rights. only the organized struggle of the people to reorganize their movement, the popular alliance to overthrow capitalist barbarity can put an end to this decline.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, commissioner, greek farmers are suffering not only from the problems facing the dairy sector throughout europe, but also from the consequences of the memorandum policies you are imposing and the lack of protection of products of origin in the european union's agreements with other countries. as we speak, you are selling off feta, greece's most famous product, in a deal with canada and the united states. through the memoranda and the oecd's toolbox, you have interfered in the greek domestic milk market, allegedly to lower the consumer price, which has resulted in the import of questionable quality milk into greece, while the price has remained high and greek production has been reduced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the result, commissioner, is that the livestock sector in greece is being wiped out, livestock units are being closed down, and i ask you: is this the solution you are proposing to the problem we are discussing today?
the commission mr president, the continuing fall in the price of milk is affecting the viability of small producers, especially in remote and mountainous areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect them. originating products are in danger of disappearing under ceta and ttip. in greece the new memorandum has brought about a complete liberalisation of the shelf life of pasteurised milk. the result is that we have pasteurized milk lasting up to eleven days, a period of time sufficient to transport pasteurized milk from the netherlands to greece. at the same time, in the name of adaptation to the oecd's toolbox, an attempt is being made to liberalise the yoghurt market. the traditional greek yogurt is thus in danger of being lost forever. mr hogan, the greek farmers who have been impoverished by the memorandum cannot compete with the prices of imported products of poor quality, nor do they have the funds to absorb the large fluctuations in prices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quotas are not exceeded, and that the milk quotas are not exceeded.
the commission mr president, the agricultural sector in the union has been hit very hard by the crisis of recent years. but the crisis was only the pretext for the final blow to an already weakened sector of the economy. the real cause is nothing other than the market disturbances caused by the wrong policies of brussels which for years, with its famous agricultural policy, has been registering one crushing failure after another. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but all you have done is weaken the farmers. of course, that was your purpose in the first place, serving the interests of big corporations. the price of milk has reached very low levels. but what is the benefit to consumers? they drink cheap milk? no, because the cartels are alive and well. now, after a series of failures, we are ready once again to implement another experiment with questionable results, again. if you really want to do something in the interests of farmers, then abolish the common agricultural policy today. the market itself will certainly do better than you.
the commission the european union is a great example of a great european union, a great european union, a great european union, a great european union, a great european union, a great european union, a great european union. where exactly did you see the single market when in each country we have different basic wages, different indirect and direct taxes and largely different regulations on the functioning of the market? how can you still mention the term "genius"? all that the union has created is a para-economic system, structured to benefit the largest enterprises, especially multinationals, which have the means to bypass legal and tax barriers to secure greater profits. in addition, you have condemned those countries with weak economies to a permanent and lasting loss of valuable human resources to the benefit of the stronger states. so decide when you talk about a single market, who exactly are you kidding, yourself or the citizens? as for the inhuman, anti-national and anti-people mechanisms you are creating, the more you try to impose them, the more you will hasten the inevitable collapse.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. however, in the current financial crisis the single market is nowhere near those objectives. the single market has proved to be a great boost to the large enterprises and industries of the north at the expense of the small and mediumsized enterprises of the south, has increased unemployment by closing thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises and has unequally distributed the economic results produced. this is particularly true of greece, which has been impoverished by the memorandum, where more than 250,000 small and mediumsized enterprises have closed. the single market strategy therefore needs to be improved immediately in order to boost employment and small and mediumsized enterprises in the south, and to create a social safety net for those who are affected by the functioning of the single market itself.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on virtual currencies because i believe that to avoid stifling innovation, we need preventive control, not preventive regulation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on virtual currencies. it is obvious that the process of transitioning the world economy to a virtual currency regime must be subject to serious and careful scrutiny. while online services and the increasing access of citizens to a technologically advanced environment are favouring the development of virtual currencies, we are obliged to highlight the risks that exist, as well as to consider all the data as the report points out. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i consider the development of virtual currencies, which have no real impact and pose a serious and real risk to the stability of the economy, to be wrong overall.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report of my colleague, jakob von weizsäcker, as it reflects the need to be ahead of evolutions and make the most out of virtual currencies and block chain in general. there is a huge potential, and if europe capitalises it we could have a competitive advantage in a cross—cutting technology that could put europe in the driver’s seat of a new technological revolution. this report achieves its goal in defining the key elements that need our attention with regard to virtual currencies and block chain.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on virtual currencies because it is not complete. it is also setting in motion procedures for a cashless society, which i am totally opposed to, as i have publicly stated both inside and outside the european parliament and the greek parliament.
in writing. ‒ the development of virtual currencies is wrong overall, because they have no real impact and pose a serious and real risk to the stability of the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request from france egf/2015/010 fr/moryglobal), as i believe that the forthcoming funding will make a significant contribution to the reintegration of many displaced persons into the labour market.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the vote on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund was once again a vote in favour of the most vulnerable groups, as it concerns the risks faced by thousands of workers in france. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ this is a financial contribution of eur 5 146 800 for the redundancies of moryglobal in france. the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, because it is necessary in cases such as those of the road haulage company moryglobal sas in france. 2.132 truck drivers employed by the road haulage company moryglobal sas in france lost their jobs as a result of the bankruptcy of moryglobal as a result of the prolonged global economic and financial crisis. it is important to show that the eu stands by the citizen.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this is a financial contribution of eur 5 146 800 for the redundancies of moryglobal in france. the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request from greece egf/2015/011 gr/supermarket larissa) because i consider that the forthcoming funding is an important tool for the reintegration of many displaced persons into the labour market given the deep economic crisis in greece.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund was in this case about avoiding the redundancies of hundreds of workers due to the problems caused by the economic crisis and the intractable austerity measures in greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i voted in favour of this because it is a financial contribution of eur 6 468 000 for 557 greek workers who have been made redundant. the point of disagreement is that the funds should be given to employment programmes for the unemployed and/or the displaced, not to companies that are paid to train them. in greece the problem is unemployment, not lack of knowledge and skills.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, because it is essential in cases such as the one in larisa that the eu shows that it is aware of its social responsibility. the 422 employees and 135 employee-owners were dismissed from larissa supermarkets after the bankruptcy of the cooperative enterprise. these measures, co-financed by the egf and the greek state, will help these people find new jobs by providing them with vocational guidance and other assistance programmes.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the as a result of the wider european austerity policies, the retail sector and the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises are suffering a significant blow. unable to cope with the deep economic recession in greece and the consequent decline in household purchasing power, the small grocery cooperative supermarket larissa was forced to close its stores. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund can actively contribute, through personalised services, to the reintegration of the displaced into employment. i would like to stress, however, that the provision of financial assistance, although a significant relief for those affected, is not sufficient. the union must take preventive action by focusing its trade policy on ways of safeguarding jobs, production and know-how. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the application for financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund was submitted by the greek authorities on 26 november 2015 following the bankruptcy of the cooperative and the european commission completed its assessment on 14 april 2016. as the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes or the global financial crisis, i support the decision of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide assistance to the redundant workers of the larisa supermarket, as well as to 543 additional unemployed people who will benefit from the programme. in view of the above, i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the we agree because it is a financial contribution of eur 6 468 000, which concerns 557 greek redundant workers. the point of disagreement is that the funds should be given to employment programmes for the unemployed and/or the displaced, not to companies that are paid to train them. in greece the problem is unemployment, not lack of knowledge and skills.
in writing. ‒ the the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr gianluca buonanno is the result of the investigation procedure carried out at his request, on the basis of his personal affairs, and is aimed at the freedom of access to his personal data. as this procedure is not related to his parliamentary duties or his freedom of expression, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the waiver of mr buonanno's immunity so that the authorities can identify the criminals who threatened his life by telephone.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr gianluca buonanno, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we agree with the waiver of mr buonanno's immunity so that the authorities can identify the criminals who threatened his life by telephone.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the vote on the report on the proposal for a council decision on the adoption of interim measures in the field of international protection for sweden constitutes a call for support for that country, given the weight it has been called upon to assume on the refugee question. i believe that although certain countries in europe have taken in a large number of refugees, there are still a number of steps to be taken and that partial favourable treatment is not the appropriate way of solving the problems. i therefore voted against.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is an oxymoron and tragedy when a member state invokes the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity in order to suspend its obligations under international treaties, and in particular the union code. the handling of the illegal immigration issue was based on the wrong decisions of the three institutions: the council of europe, the commission and the european parliament, in which sweden is actively involved, so it could have corrected the gaps in the political decisions, especially on the issue of quotas.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the proposal for a council decision on the adoption of provisional measures in the area of international protection in favour of sweden in accordance with article 9 of decision (eu) 2015/1523 and article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1601 adopting provisional measures in the area of international protection in favour of italy and greece, because it is not complete and well-founded. the exception granted to sweden from the relocation procedure is another example of the same process of relocating refugees from greece and italy to other eu countries. greece cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the commission's proposals. 66,400 refugees so far, the resettlement is less than 1,000. the commissioner responsible's announcement of 6,000 relocations per month from greece to other eu countries should be implemented immediately.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the kke group voted against the suspension of sweden's participation in the obligations arising from the council decisions on the resettlement of refugees. it is confirmed that once the capitalist states have selected all those who need their domestic monopolies, they then inhumanely close the borders. the european parliament, which for so long has been engaged in hyperbolic and hypocritical declarations of alleged solidarity with refugees, is now putting its stamp on a decision which brutally violates their rights. these decisions by the eu and the city governments are intensifying the trapping of thousands of refugees and migrants in the first host countries - if they escape the multi-national shipwrecks - in camps where even the most basic living conditions are not respected, with no drinking water, no or inadequate food, in mud and garbage dumps. the communist party of greece targets the real cause of the refugee crisis, which is imperialist interventions and capitalist barbarity, and supports in every way the demands of the refugees for: safe movement to the countries of final destination, recognition of the status of refugee to all peoples who have been subjected to imperialist aggression, humane treatment, open and humane, state-organized reception spaces.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is an oxymoron and tragic when a member state invokes the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity in order to suspend its obligations under international treaties, and in particular the union code. the handling of the illegal immigration issue was based on the wrong decisions of the three institutions: the council of europe, the commission and the european parliament, in which sweden is actively involved, so it could have corrected the gaps in the political decisions, especially on the issue of quotas.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the kke group voted against the suspension of sweden's participation in the obligations arising from the council decisions on the resettlement of refugees. it is confirmed that once the capitalist states have selected all those who need their domestic monopolies, they then inhumanely close the borders. the european parliament, which for so long has been engaged in hyperbolic and hypocritical declarations of alleged solidarity with refugees, is now putting its stamp on a decision which brutally violates their rights. these decisions by the eu and the city governments are intensifying the trapping of thousands of refugees and migrants in the first host countries - if they escape the multi-national shipwrecks - in camps where even the most basic living conditions are not respected, with no drinking water, no or inadequate food, in mud and garbage dumps. the communist party of greece targets the real cause of the refugee crisis, which is imperialist interventions and capitalist barbarity, and supports in every way the demands of the refugees for: safe movement to the countries of final destination, recognition of the status of refugee to all peoples who have been subjected to imperialist aggression, humane treatment, open and humane, state-organized reception spaces.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the resolution on transatlantic data flows is a matter of paramount importance for the citizens of both europe and the usa. while we recognise the need for both sides to cope with the rapid pace of modern technology development and the need to tackle illegal activities effectively, i do not think that the protection of personal data and the freedoms of citizens, which are a cornerstone of europe, are at the forefront. i therefore voted against.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ in providing data protection for transatlantic flows between the us and the eu, a proper basis has not yet been established that combines with the corresponding protection in all third countries and effectively protects people's fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the motion for a resolution on the transatlantic flows as it raises the issues of data protection with regards to data flows. though innovation will be incremental for the eu’s future, we need a solid legal framework protecting our data from being abused. this motion for a resolution raises the concerns of our people. we should always have in mind that if a true digital single market is to be achieved, the trust of the citizens will be the cornerstone.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution on transatlantic data flows for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 25 may 2015, and because the joint motion for a resolution is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the provision of protection for transatlantic data flows between the us and the eu has not so far established a proper basis, combined with the corresponding protection in all third countries, that effectively protects people's fundamental rights.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the new energy consumer agreement, which refers to the energy union, which should be at the core of citizens and contribute to the design of energy policy and the protection of consumers from non-competitive and unfair practices by suppliers. the report also proposes measures to ensure the proper functioning of the energy market and makes suggestions for saving consumers money on their energy bills.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on a new energy consumer agreement focuses exclusively on household energy consumers and aims to transition to an economy based entirely on renewable energy sources, provide stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy and eliminate the energy deficit. i believe that these objectives are very important and that their achievement will be of benefit to the citizens. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because the energy needs and energy efficiency of the member states differ substantially and therefore cannot be brought under full eu control without considerable losses, especially for the energy-rich states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on household energy consumers because of the important role they can play in the ongoing energy transition. in the light of the commission communication entitled 'a new deal for energy consumers', it is emphasised that measures taken to achieve the energy union should promote consumer protection, ensure better information on consumers' rights and ways of managing energy resources more efficiently and enhance eu-wide coordination to combat energy poverty.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on a new agreement for energy consumers for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in brussels on 25 may 2015, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed that the report be voted on as the energy needs and energy efficiency of the member states differ substantially and therefore cannot be brought under full eu control without significant losses, especially for the energy-rich states.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on poverty: a gender perspective, because women are the first victims of austerity policies and the economic crisis, and this cycle of poverty is passed on to future generations and their children. in addition, the report calls on the eu institutions to invest in social infrastructure, better work and living arrangements, to ensure that women remain or can enter the labour market and thus break the vicious circle of poverty.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on gender-based poverty of citizens is an attempt to identify and address the gender-related problems faced by citizens. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because it promotes the visibility and support of transgender/homosexual people.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report by mrs maria arena on the gender dimension in poverty. for many years, parliament has paid increasing attention to the issue of poverty and the social exclusion of women. unfortunately, in the labour market women are affected on average more than men, much more so when it comes to single mothers, pensioners, migrants or women with disabilities, while the wage and pension gap compared to men remains a major issue in many eu countries. i agree with the approach of the report because the fight against women's poverty is a matter of social justice.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i was absent when voting on the report on poverty: the gender dimension because it is not sufficiently documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the more and more working class families, especially women and children, are faced with the poverty inherent in the exploitative capitalist system. by concealing this real cause of their problems, eu and bourgeois governments hypocritically try to 'spoof' with eulogies the tragic consequences their barbaric policies are causing in the popular households. the report proposes, for example, flexible and adaptable working hours, teleworking, which in this system not only do not meet the modern needs and the right of women to permanent, stable work with full rights, but on the contrary undermine them. it talks about 'affordable' and therefore paid 'childcare services', while at the same time the report calls for 'financial instruments' to be used for public and private 'social investment' in 'infrastructure for childcare and support', i.e. on the one hand, parents putting their hands in their pockets to pay for the businesses in the sector and on the other hand, these being financed also by eu funds derived from the tax deduction of popular incomes. this is the capitalist system that makes the poor poorer, men and women, to enrich the monopolies. only by overthrowing it and taking power into their own hands will the people be able to meet their modern expanded needs.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed that the report be voted on as it promotes the promotion and support of transgender/homosexual people.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the more and more working class families, especially women and children, are faced with the poverty inherent in the exploitative capitalist system. by concealing this real cause of their problems, eu and bourgeois governments hypocritically try to 'spoof' with eulogies the tragic consequences their barbaric policies are causing in the popular households. the report proposes, for example, flexible and adaptable working hours, teleworking, which in this system not only do not meet the modern needs and the right of women to permanent, stable work with full rights, but on the contrary undermine them. it talks about 'affordable' and therefore paid 'childcare services', while at the same time the report calls for 'financial instruments' to be used for public and private 'social investments' in 'infrastructure for childcare and support', i.e. on the one hand, parents putting their hands in their pockets to pay for the businesses in the sector and on the other hand, these being financed also by eu funds derived from the tax deduction of popular incomes. this is the capitalist system that makes the poor poorer, men and women, to enrich the monopolies. only by overthrowing it and taking power into their own hands will the people be able to meet their modern expanded needs.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to abolish the existing non-tariff barriers still in place within the eu in order to make possible the completion of the single market. i voted in favour of this report because the inadequate or incorrect application of existing european rules is hindering trade within the eu and is creating obstacles to development.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on non-tariff barriers in the single market is a matter of particular importance for economic activity in the european territory. although the existence of different and often conflicting rules and regulations between states is one of the failings of the functioning of the union, and although the existence and prospect of the abolition of customs barriers within the single market has been a subject of debate for many years, i believe that this report, while containing positive elements, does not sufficiently contribute to the protection of the interests of citizens and therefore runs counter to our policy. that's why i decided to stay away.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because non-tariff barriers are the last obstacle and line of defence against a single market in name only, which serves nothing but big capital and multinationals.
in writing. ‒ the removal of barriers to trade across the european union is an inextricable element of the single market. however, the continued existence of non-tariff barriers still remains a challenge for the union and the single market initiatives. although the report reflects a rather balanced approach, by recognizing that not all non-tariff barriers should be removed, i decided to abstain. hence, i express my concerns regarding the complexity of adopting a clear definition of non-tariff barriers.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on non-tariff barriers in the single market for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 25 may 2015, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against, non-tariff barriers are the last obstacle and line of defence against a single market in name only, which serves nothing but big capital and multinationals.
in writing. ‒ the this report is a response to the european commission's strategy for the single market which was implemented last year. the group of the party of european socialists supports a more holistic vision of the single market based on a green, social market economy based on knowledge, which will improve the well-being of european citizens by proposing practical measures aimed at ensuring equal treatment and social inclusion, the creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high-quality consumer protection.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the single market strategy is an attempt to improve the situation and should aim to eliminate inequalities between member states and to improve the prospects for development of all the members of the union. instead, the report focuses on specialising in free movement issues or barriers to the digital market for the benefit of companies, while avoiding problems affecting european citizens. i have therefore decided to abstain from voting despite the positive aspects of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because the single market, besides being dysfunctional in general, has caused a great loss of valuable human resources in our country, as in all the other economically weak countries of the union.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of mrs comi's report because i believe that the completion of the single market has been and remains a fundamental political priority in the process of european integration. i would like to stress in particular that the single patent is a very important step in this direction, which is an important step forward in the protection of intellectual property and the relationship with national patent systems and supplementary protection certificates must be improved. the european single market needs more appropriate rules for market surveillance and therefore a decision on the future of the legislative package pending in the council is required, without overlooking the importance of the rules on the indication of the origin of products for consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ the present report deals with the additional instruments offered by the new ‘upgrading the single market: more opportunities for people and business’ strategy, in order to guarantee the effective functioning of the single market. the report adopts a liberal approach and seems to approve the majority of the measures proposed by the commission, which are foreseen to further and deepen the single market. however, some serious issues that ensue from this fact, such as labour deregulation, worker’s rights protection, dismantling of national sovereign economic instruments are not addressed. in order to emphasize the necessity for these aspects to be taken into consideration, i decided to abstain.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the single market strategy for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 26 may 2015, and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ we are against, the single market, besides not being functional in general, has caused a great loss of valuable human resources in our country, as in all the other economically weak countries of the union.
the commission mr president, we welcome the upcoming meeting of representatives of governments and implementing bodies on the fight against hiv/aids, to be held from 8 to 10 june at united nations headquarters in new york. the results of recent hiv/aids research are particularly worrying, as it reveals that 36.9 million people worldwide are living with hiv/aids. africa remains the global epicenter of the pandemic with 25.8 million people living with hiv in 2014. despite a large increase in global funding since 2000, the hiv/aids virus continues to grow, with 38.4 million of our fellow human beings infected, proving that the resources available to fight hiv/aids are still insufficient. it is therefore necessary for the european union to invest in research to produce powerful and effective drugs to combat aids, and care must be taken to ensure that the widest possible part of the world's population has access to appropriate information, prevention, counselling, medical testing and treatment for aids.
the commission mr president, the cohesion of development policy is another example of the gap between the vision of the european union and reality. nothing you've theoretically pursued has been achieved. the situation is clearly worse than it was a decade ago, and the prospects are anything but good. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is not only a political union, but also a political union. i do not need to say that the report's author is more concerned with meeting the needs of illegal immigrants, suspected ngos and other voluntary organisations than with the needs of european citizens. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission has already made it clear that it will not accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are not in line with the commission's proposals. the european union's economic policy must be completely re-defined to serve the needs of european citizens rather than those of multinationals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. at least 1.5 billion of our fellow human beings live in poverty and misery and lack basic health and education services, while at the same time the world's wealth is concentrated in a handful of people. but instead of focusing on sustainable development, on reducing poverty and the enormous social inequalities on the world stage, the european union is ultimately continuing to insist on austerity and exploitation. the european union must therefore change course and develop a coherent development policy that empowers poor producers, cooperatives and small businesses, promotes fair trade and the cancellation of the debts of the developing countries and the countries of the european periphery, and in particular of greece, which is plagued by the troika memoranda. at the same time, the european union should monitor the impact of its agricultural and energy policies on people's living standards, ensure that income inequalities are reduced, ensure an effective health system for all and take measures to implement the paris cop21 agreement on climate change.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear power stations in the member states are equipped with the necessary safety equipment. particular care must be taken when nuclear power stations or other installations are located close to the european union's border. one such case is the nuclear reactor at astraviets in belarus, for which there are reservations about whether and if it has been built in accordance with the high safety standards applied in the european union. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european atomic energy community with the european atomic energy community. turkey in particular is a country with a high risk of nuclear accidents because, like belarus, it does not have transparent procedures for simulating extreme nuclear safety situations and is also a seismically sensitive country. the european union must therefore take action to ensure that both the astraviech nuclear reactor and those to be built in the countries mentioned above operate in accordance with the safety standards applicable in the european union.
the commission mr president, belarus is one of the most developed countries of the former soviet union and the diplomatic orientation of the lukashenko government towards moscow should not be a reason for creating a negative climate on any pretext. the danger of a nuclear accident is obviously not confined to national borders. we know this very well from the chernobyl accident and obviously the government of belarus and all those involved in the construction of the new nuclear power plant in astrakhan must take all the necessary measures to ensure that the plant meets the safety standards of the international atomic energy agency. the same must be true of turkey, which is also trying to build a nuclear power plant opposite the dodecanese, in a highly seismic area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. when are we going to talk about this whole thing? when will we discuss the doel and tihange plants, which should have been decommissioned in belgium by 2015?
the commission mr president, the construction of a nuclear power station in astraviets in belarus is of enormous importance for the energy policy of belarus and the union as regards the safety and protection of the nuclear power station and the environment. it is obvious that belarus has every right to look for alternative forms of energy, considering that 90% of the gas it uses is imported from russia. the protest, of course, is over the agreement between belarus and the russian company for the construction of the plant and the future waste management, and over the financing of the entire project by russia, which is worth $22 billion. i think that belarus as a sovereign state can sign energy agreements without hints and prohibitions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's ships is not compromised by the fact that the ships are not equipped with the necessary safety equipment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear safety of the community is not compromised by the nuclear safety of the member states.
the commission mr president, the way the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa, which is a public-private partnership to support sub-saharan africa and tackle poverty, works reminds me a bit of the troika in greece. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the use of the seeds in the community. i see an intervention in the internal affairs of the states and i wonder whether there will really be any real help. we also see support for large enterprises, we do not see support for small communities, for land workers, and the agricultural investments being promoted are export-oriented rather than stimulating the local economy. i therefore believe that this situation cannot reverse the problems in africa. only the cancellation of the debt of the african states can really give them the opportunity for growth.
the commission madam president, according to the european union, the application of international accounting standards enables companies to attract capital and investment on the international capital markets, thus helping to strengthen the single market. of course, the financial crisis has shown that these standards need to be reviewed. in particular, international financial reporting standards should enhance accountability and reduce the investor-to-business gap in order to protect investments. this will also enhance international comparability and hence transparency in the presentation of the real situation of economic units. moreover, as regards the application of international accounting standards in a member state, there should be harmonisation of the institutional and legal environment and better information of auditors and accountants on the technical details of their application. finally, transparency and credibility in the competent supervisory and regulatory authorities should be enhanced.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in the name of peace, countries have been torn apart, entire societies condemned to underdevelopment and peoples have disappeared. the account of recent interventions and interventions in africa is no exception to this description; interventions unsuccessful even from a military point of view. what happened in somalia, the sahel, libya? these examples are not random. these are three areas where, after foreign military interventions, salafist islam became stronger. so the iraq scenario was re-enacted in its entirety. but decisions have costs, especially irresponsible decisions, and particularly those of france, whose successive governments and eminent so-called intellectuals are trying to drag the whole of europe into destructive wars in africa. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. let it also take on the task of rebuilding the countries it has destroyed and not charge other states a share of its own dead-end diplomacy that it has been holding back for years.
the commission the report we are discussing, madam president, raises the vital question of the survival of european agriculture, that is, of its adaptation to new technological and economic developments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how can we legislate to protect the agricultural economy without having identified the risks? the main danger at the moment is the logic of abolishing designations of origin, the logic of supporting the introduction of genetically modified foodstuffs on the market and, of course, the logic of subsidies for monoculture, intensive farming and the large agricultural lobbies. the commission has had to think a little before allowing the czech republic, for example, to produce greek yoghurt. there we are! greek yogurt made in the czech republic! the protection of the rural sector and sustainable agriculture means subsidies to the right beneficiaries, it means a gentle and democratic modernisation of traditional small-scale and organic farming.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the european union's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the american model - which some in europe are trying to impose on us through ttip - is certainly very effective only for the giants of the agri-food sector and the lobbies of the big producers, but it is destructive for the environment, our health and future generations. it is also disastrous for the 25 million farmers in the countries of europe, the majority of whom have chosen and managed, through hard struggle, to maintain another organization of production. the european union must therefore not pull the rug out from under them, but rather support this heritage. there is no good compromise for ttip. the european model of production, based on the small unit, is the opposite of what the american and european multinationals are calling for. in an age when sustainability has become a priority and the commitment of most of the world's major economies is there, the destruction of the european fabric of production will be the ultimate setback.
the commission madam president, today, on the anniversary of the allied landing in normandy in 1944, which played a major role in the defeat of nazism, albanian prime minister edi rama, in a delirium of nationalism, raised the issue of samurai, representing as he said albanian citizens descended from the samurai, those who were condemned by greece as war criminals, since as armed units they collaborated during the german-italian occupation with the ss and the wehrmacht murdering thousands of greek civilians. the time has come for greece to demand war reparations and compensation from albania for the criminal acts of the cham associates of the nazis, especially now that the albanian prime minister, edi rama, has officially accepted the alleged rights and therefore the obligations and responsibilities of the cham. it is not enough to say that the european union is not prepared to accept the idea of a common foreign and security policy, but it is also necessary to say that the european union is not prepared to accept the idea of a common foreign and security policy. albania was then part of mussolini's italy, which attacked greece in 1940 and remained until 1943 as the occupying force of my homeland.
the commission madam president, the syriza-anel government in greece, after cutting pensions and social security benefits, has also handed over the first house of the working class family to the funds. at the same time, it implements savage tax evasion, providing hot money for industrialists and shipowners. it is now preparing a new law on working conditions with fair terms, similar to those in force in france, belgium and every other member state of the european union. it is the so-called 'best practices' of the european union and its institutions like the european parliament that are bringing workers into the streets by the thousands. that's what you call breaking the collective agreements, abolishing the 13th and 14th salaries, mass layoffs, restrictions on strikes. all of this is a prerequisite for the recovery of capital. it is the magnet for investments like the ones just signed by the governments of greece and france on the backs of the people of both countries. an effective working-class popular response can only be given by the organized class struggle to recover losses, the overthrow of the power of capital.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. the scandal of scandals is this very rotten system of exploitation, the privileges of capital inseparable from the anti-people barbarism in all states, regardless of memoranda. it's the endless popular sacrifices that fund the profits. what capital gains is what the worker loses. with development laws like the one now being voted in greece you are financing new subsidies and tax breaks to business groups from the taxation of the people, who are in danger of losing even their homes to ever-increasing taxes they cannot pay. if the objectives of the memoranda are not met, wages and pensions will be cut even further by the budget cut, but not the capital tax exemptions. this legal tax evasion is quantitatively infinitely greater than the illegal tax evasion of capital. the proposed directive, which is the result of a conflict of interests and not a desire to clean up, concerns a very small part of the tax evasion of companies. he is merely trying to appease the indignation of the people, who are facing the tax evasion of their ever-decreasing income to fund capitalist development. popular prosperity is possible only with the people in power, owners of the wealth they produce, free from the domination of the monopolies and their associations.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, mr moscovici, according to official estimates, a trillion euros are lost every year from this gigantic tax fraud. it is lost from the state budgets and must be returned to support investment, growth and the strengthening of the welfare state. we are talking about a provocative lack of fairness and healthy competition revealed by the panama papers in favour of multinationals and at the expense of the taxpayers, smes and states. the position of my political group is that profits should be taxed where they are generated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also been asked to provide the council with a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is to be published in the official journal of the european union. the commission has taken a small, belated positive step. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the european parliament must exert counter-pressure to ensure that tax evasion is effectively tackled within europe as well.
the commission madam president, all over the world multinational companies are evading taxes, either by exploiting the gaps and differences in national tax systems or by funding corrupt politicians in certain countries, as siemens did in my home country of greece. the result of this is that the states suffer considerable financial losses and lose money that could be used for other development activities. the same applies to the small and mediumsized enterprises, which form the backbone of the economy of each country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is fair and equitable. the basis of this system should be the taxation of multinational companies' profits in the country where they are made, so that they cannot be channelled to other countries which are tax havens. moreover, if they try to send this money to other countries, they should be taxed in the way they would be if they acquired it in the country in which they acquired it. finally, multinational companies should not be allowed to deduct interest and take advantage of the incentives to submit ...... (the president interrupts the speaker) )
the commission madam president, mr moscovici, the tax evasion and avoidance practices of multinationals, which hide their profits in various tax havens, are well known. this was proven by the lux leaks and the panama papers, which include the names of 400 greeks directly or indirectly linked to 223 offshore companies. but instead of taking action against the creation of offshore companies, the greek government finally passed a law and a provision to legalize the political persons who own offshore companies. however, after the public outcry, the government was forced to table an amendment that establishes a universal ban on participation in the management or capital of offshore companies for all political persons. the only solution to the problem of tax evasion is to tax the profits of businesses where they are made, so as to stop companies from resorting to tax havens and burdening the member states of the union with lost tax revenues.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the notorious tax evasion by large multinational companies using aggressive tax planning techniques is estimated to cost the member states of the european union some eur 70 billion in evasive taxes per year. if this leakage is stopped drastically, the tax burden on small businesses, which create more jobs in proportion to their turnover than large multinationals, can be reduced in equal measure, thus boosting employment and reducing unemployment. the draft directive on tax avoidance presented by the european commission is moving in the right direction but is too timid. we need much stricter rules on a common tax policy and their immediate implementation in cooperation with the tax authorities of the member states in order to combat crossborder tax evasion effectively. it is unacceptable that austerity measures should be imposed at the expense of the economically weaker because the multinational giants continue to avoid the burden of taxation.
the commission mr president, i think that no one will disagree that, like so many other sectors of the economy, the financial instruments market needs specific regulation to make it safer for all those who choose to operate in it, firstly for the member states of the union and to avoid illegal activities and ultimately for the good of our societies as a whole. but as necessary as some of these adjustments are, as much as any gaps have been foreseen, the truth is that nothing will be affected for the better the daily life of the ordinary citizen. unemployment is rising and poverty is knocking on the door of more families every day. unfortunately, in the midst of the crisis europe has been going through for the last ten years, citizens are demanding drastic solutions to their daily problems. but reports such as those we are discussing today do not offer those solutions. we must therefore focus on addressing the many serious and long-standing problems of european citizens beyond targeted interventions. the report aims to strengthen investor protection by introducing strong organisational and behavioural requirements - issues of little importance to the vast majority of the people. the reason why the citizens of europe have chosen us to represent them here is to provide solutions to their daily problems and they expect results, which unfortunately this house has a very difficult time presenting, since there is very little that you have managed to put into practice for the benefit of the many and not the few so far.
the commission i think that the extension is necessary, mr president, and most of us will vote for it. but at the same time i regard it as a failure, one might say, of the european institutions, in the sense that we are not following a reality at the pace at which it is developing. we have an institutional sluggishness in dealing with specific problems. we had the international financial crisis of 2008, which the european union paid a very heavy price for and which we can say was changed by the social and political consequences of the very composition of the european parliament. so we risk intervening in 2018 with no guarantee that there will not be another financial crisis by then. there is a serious possibility of a new financial crisis. it is enough to look at what is happening in china, for example. it is enough to look at the problems of the banking system in the european south. it is enough to look at the difficulties that banks have with negative interest rates, the difficulties of insurance companies, and even the difficulties that will arise in the united states and the united kingdom, two powerful financial centres, because of political developments. so in my view we need a transitional defence, that is, how to go from one period of the strictest control to another without suffering too much damage.
the commission mr president, the pricing of financial instruments and contracts depends to a large extent on the accuracy of the reference data. competent authorities should provide financial instrument reference data and, to this end, the european securities and markets authority and national competent authorities should establish a financial instrument reference data system to facilitate the data processing process. the competent authorities will of course be working under appropriate supervision to ensure full transparency, correct pricing conditions and, of course, to eliminate any instances of market abuse. the commission has already established requirements concerning the authorisation and operation of investment firms and data reporting firms. however, since the infrastructure for collecting the necessary data is not ready by the scheduled dates, the regulation proposed by the commission can be carried over a year later to complete the procedures of the system.
the commission mr president, trading on financial instruments markets is by its very nature highly aggressive. i'm not saying that recklessness is an excuse. but it is a huge moral sin, if you will, a criminal offence, when it is a field of exploitation for people who are just looking for investment opportunities. investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers operate under specific rules and outside the framework of any harmonised practice. they often act as a crutch for large banking giants and governments to collect money from non-depositors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial resources of the community are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european securities and markets authority should primarily enforce transparency rules and best execution rules. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products of the who framework convention on tobacco control, as it is the first multilateral initiative to tackle the illicit trade in tobacco and cigarettes by securing supply chains. it is also an important step forward in the fight against public health and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the today's vote on the recommendation on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products of the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control is an opportunity to highlight a sector of illicit trade which has a direct impact not only on the health of citizens but also on public finances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, because illicit tobacco products carry many risks to human health
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of tobacco products in the manufacture of tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, with the exception of its provisions falling within the scope of title v of part three of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, because it is comprehensive and well documented.
in writing. ‒ illegal tobacco products carry many risks to human health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which aims to facilitate and liberalise trade in motor vehicles by establishing uniform technical specifications for the approval of vehicle equipment and components and for the mutual recognition of such approvals. international cooperation on regulations could help to promote a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while ensuring high levels of health and safety protection.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the recommendation for the adoption of uniform technical specifications for wheeled vehicles, equipment and components which can be fitted and/or used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for the mutual recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these specifications. i think this is a positive process aimed at harmonizing the techniques used and can therefore help to reduce errors and reduce risks for the wheeled vehicle sector. i therefore voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, because there is a need to simplify the procedures for trade in the automotive sector, which is also directly linked to the supply industry.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation because there is a need to simplify the procedures for trade in the automotive sector, which is also directly linked to the supply industry.
in writing. ‒ this is the third revision of the united nations economic commission for europe (un/eu) agreement to update and harmonise technical specifications for wheeled vehicles and their equipment. as emphasised, the establishment of common technological requirements is appropriate to be done within the framework of the un/eu agreement, as it will thus contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of the automotive industry and to creating a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the third revision of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions (revised 1958 agreement), as it is not sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ there is a need to simplify the procedures for trade in the automotive sector, which is also directly linked to the supply industry.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation concerning the adjustment of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and colombia; the european union welcomes the progress made in the implementation of the new lomé convention and the adoption of the new lomé convention.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. although this discussion concerns the extension of existing agreements, i believe that focusing exclusively on economic issues and sectors is not the appropriate way to deepen relations between the two parties and does not benefit european citizens. therefore, i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ no, because once again the eu is doing so at the expense of its member states by taking decisions on the free movement of goods with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation because once again the eu is doing so at the expense of its member states by taking decisions on the free movement of goods with third countries.
in writing. ‒ the the directive concerns the eu-colombia and peru trade agreement with croatia. it is a mixed trade agreement and so far belgium and greece have not signed the agreement. the european left and i believe that such trade agreements do more harm than good to the states that sign them politically, socially and economically, making them undesirable in my view. but the directive focuses on approving croatia's participation in the trade agreement because croatia as an eu member state has the right to participate if it wishes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, because it is complete and substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu's decisions on free trade with third countries are to the detriment of its member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision approving enhanced cooperation in the area of international jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property relations of international couples, covering both the property relations of spouses and the property relations of registered partners, as it will significantly benefit the lives of international couples as they will gain legal security.
in writing. ‒ the today's vote on the recommendation to adopt enhanced cooperation in the area of international jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property relations of international couples, covering both the property relations of spouses and the property relations of registered partners, is an attempt to optimise the existing rules and institutional framework. it also lays the foundations for speeding up judicial procedures. i therefore believe that it is moving in the right direction and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, because family law must be respected in all cases, to safeguard the rights of international couples.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the recommendation because family law must be respected in all cases to safeguard the rights of international couples.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, which deals with the use of enhanced cooperation in the area of international jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property relations of international couples. the enhanced cooperation mechanism is designed to deal with situations of paralysis by enabling a group of countries to undertake enhanced integration in certain areas, in this case in the field of property law. in this way, it can help modernise the system for implementing this law in europe and facilitate procedural procedures for single people or even same-sex couples.
in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the recommendation on the draft council decision approving enhanced cooperation in the area of international jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of property relations of international couples, covering both matrimonial property relations and registered partnership property relations, because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ family law must be respected in all cases, to safeguard the rights of international couples.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, as regards its provisions on obligations relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences, as this protocol is intended to encourage and strengthen international cooperation on mutual legal and administrative assistance.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to eradicate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, as regards its provisions on obligations relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences, offers the opportunity to combat more effectively crimes committed which are a burden on the health of citizens and the economies of states. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ illicit trade in tobacco products is defined in the protocol as any practice or conduct prohibited by law and associated with the production, dispatch, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the illicit trade in tobacco products is defined in the protocol as any practice or conduct prohibited by law and associated with the manufacture, shipment, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products. to tackle the illicit trade in tobacco products, the protocol targets the tobacco supply chain through a series of measures by governments. it calls for the establishment of a global tracking and monitoring regime within five years of the entry into force of the protocol. this action will create a global information exchange point located in the secretariat of the who framework convention on tobacco control. this will guide the establishment of national and regional tracing and monitoring systems. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the directive is to eradicate the illicit trade in tobacco products, according to the world health organisation. the world health organization developed the protocol to eliminate the illicit trade in tobacco products. i voted in favour of the directive because, in addition to combating illegal trade, it aims to encourage and strengthen international cooperation, the exchange of information and law enforcement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, as regards its provisions on obligations relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences, because it is comprehensive and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the illicit trade in tobacco products is defined in the protocol as any practice or conduct prohibited by law and associated with the manufacture, shipment, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products. to tackle the illicit trade in tobacco products, the protocol targets the tobacco supply chain through a series of measures by governments. it calls for the establishment of a global tracking and monitoring regime within five years of the entry into force of the protocol. this action will create a global information exchange point located in the secretariat of the who framework convention on tobacco control. this will guide the establishment of national and regional tracing and monitoring systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/ec on markets in financial instruments, as it contains improvements to the specifications of certain non-financial corporations and the treatment of securities financing transactions.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/ec on markets in financial instruments, as regards certain dates. this is an attempt to delay the implementation of the markets in financial instruments regulation by one year. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the council and the commission are able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers operate under specific rules and outside the framework of any harmonised practice. they often act as a crutch for large banking giants and governments to collect money from non-depositors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial resources of the community are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers operate under specific rules and outside the framework of any harmonised practice. they often act as a crutch for large banking giants and governments to collect money from non-depositors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial resources of the community are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european securities and markets authority should primarily enforce transparency rules and best execution rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and that the european union's financial interests are protected. i therefore vote against the report on the markets in financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposed directive on markets in financial instruments. the directive aims to harmonise the start of financial instruments for all eu countries. i should like to stress, however, that the directive has some legal loopholes which can be misused. that is why i voted against the directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/ec on markets in financial instruments as regards certain dates for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 7/6/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers operate under specific rules and outside the framework of any harmonised practice. they often act as a crutch for large banking giants and governments to collect money from non-depositors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial resources of the community are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european securities and markets authority should primarily enforce transparency rules and best execution rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and that the european union's financial interests are protected.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this proposal for a regulation concerns markets in financial instruments, market abuse and securities settlement. the overall legislative work of the proposal is huge and is accompanied by a wide range of secondary legislation, which has been developed by the european commission and the european securities and markets authority (esma) over the last two years. during these two years it became clear that esma and the national authorities would not be able to have the necessary it systems at their disposal to implement the project. the european parliament and the council have therefore agreed to a temporary delay. the vote in which i voted in favour of this report concerns some technical corrections to the text to deal with the package of transactions and the conditions for certain non-financial corporations. the vote on the motion for a resolution by mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, mr glinne, mr glinne, mr glinne,
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on the improvement of securities settlement in the european union and central securities depositories, as regards certain dates. this is an attempt to delay the implementation of the financial intermediaries regulation by one year. as i believe that further delay will create further problems and possibilities of irregularities, i have decided to vote against.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers operate under specific rules and outside the framework of any harmonised practice. they often act as a crutch for large banking giants and governments to collect money from non-depositors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial resources of the community are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers operate under specific rules and outside the framework of any harmonised practice. they often act as a crutch for large banking giants and governments to collect money from non-depositors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial resources of the community are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european securities and markets authority should primarily enforce transparency rules and best execution rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and that the european union's financial interests are protected. i therefore vote against the report on markets in financial instruments, market abuse and securities settlement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on the improvement of securities settlement in the european union and central securities depositories, as regards certain dates, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 6 june 2016 and because that report is not complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers operate under specific rules and outside the framework of any harmonised practice. they often act as a crutch for large banking giants and governments to collect money from non-depositors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial resources of the community are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european securities and markets authority should primarily enforce transparency rules and best execution rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and that the european union's financial interests are protected.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility and of union interest should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility and of union interest should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposed appointment of rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors, as i do not agree with key points of the report.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility and of union interest should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this 2015 report on policy coherence demonstrates that it is very difficult to achieve. however, the eu should seek to ensure that there is greater cooperation between european policies. it would also be important to have a european council meeting before the adoption of the final commission report in order to raise awareness of this issue and clarify the responsibilities of the different bodies. the present report, which i voted in favour of, proposes, among other things, greater involvement of local and regional governments as well as social organisations and think tanks, the establishment of a complaints mechanism, clearer evidence-based policy analysis, and so on.
in writing. ‒ the the report on policy coherence for development is a useful tool to focus on the prospects for the european economy and growth, but also to understand the problems that we are faced with and need to solve. i think that the results of such reports are important and that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the fact is that poverty, inequality and deprivation of health, education and livelihood are plaguing many european countries because of the economic crisis. this is why there needs to be tax transparency, accountability of development finance institutions to better monitor cash flows, and binding rules on climate and renewable energy. however, we are obliged to vote against the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development, since we are in favour of a traditional society that does not defend lgbt rights, nor supports a refugee migration policy, with all the costs that this entails.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the fact is that poverty, inequality and deprivation of health, education and livelihood are plaguing many european countries because of the economic crisis. this is why there needs to be tax transparency, accountability of development finance institutions to better monitor cash flows, and binding rules on climate and renewable energy. however, i am obliged to vote against the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development, as i am in favour of a traditional society that does not defend lgbt rights, nor does it support a refugee migration policy, with all the costs that this entails.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 6 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the fact is that poverty, inequality and deprivation of health, education and livelihoods are plaguing many european countries because of the economic crisis. this is why there needs to be tax transparency, accountability of development finance institutions to better monitor cash flows, and binding rules on climate and renewable energy. we are in favour of a traditional society which does not defend the rights of lgbt people, nor does it support a refugee migration policy, with all the costs that this entails.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the new alliance for food security and nutrition (nafsn) in africa was launched in may 2012 under the auspices of the g8 with the aim of improving agricultural production and developing the agricultural sector by attracting private investment. the present report, which i voted in favour of, recognises the weaknesses of the nafsn and calls for their immediate remedy. the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament in particular argues, among other things, that agricultural investment policies should be linked to the development of the local economy and small farmers. in addition, an independent accountability mechanism should be established, land grabbing should be combated, and public-private partnerships should be more regulated and monitored, as well as respect for human rights, land rights, and social, environmental and labour standards.
in writing. ‒ the report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition is a clear attempt to identify the risks and make proposals to address the food risks that exist and threaten a large part of the world's population and, in the long term, all of us. i therefore consider this to be an important effort and that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the fact is that poverty, inequality and deprivation of health, education and livelihood are plaguing many european countries because of the economic crisis. this is why there needs to be tax transparency, accountability of development finance institutions to better monitor cash flows, and binding rules on climate and renewable energy. however, we are obliged to vote against the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development, since we are in favour of a traditional society that does not defend lgbt rights, nor supports a refugee migration policy, with all the costs that this entails.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ it is a fact that malnutrition, poverty, inequality, are problems that plague african countries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health insurance system. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the european parliament on the new alliance for food security and nutrition, to combat corruption, to stimulate agricultural production, while at the same time safeguarding human rights, in order to prevent mass migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition because it is comprehensive and well-documented and also because it addresses the issues i raised in detail in my speech to the european parliament plenary in strasbourg on 6 june 2016 in relation to the action of the new alliance for food security and nutrition.
in writing. ‒ the the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) is a huge public-private partnership within the g8 that literally gives food and water to business groups for their unfettered profitability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the treaty. the resolution, by focusing on certain existing problems such as 'land grabs' which risk further marginalizing and eliminating small producers, 'exclusion of agricultural workers', 'seeds' damaged by monopolies, 'racial discrimination', supports and promotes the necessity of the agreement, acting on the logic of an allegedly fabricated one. it is provocative that the business groups involved are given not only financing but even tax breaks for the creation of 'special economic zones' in order to invest funds ostensibly to provide food for the people of africa. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the resolution, which is only really intended to mislead and conceal the unrelenting truth: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is a fact that malnutrition, poverty, inequality are problems that plague african countries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health insurance system. we must stamp out corruption, stimulate agricultural production, and always defend human rights, in order to prevent mass migration.
in writing. ‒ the the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) is a huge public-private partnership within the g8 that literally gives food and water to business groups for their unfettered profitability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the treaty. the resolution, by focusing on certain existing problems such as 'land grabs' which risk further marginalizing and eliminating small producers, 'exclusion of agricultural workers', 'seeds' damaged by monopolies, 'racial discrimination', supports and promotes the necessity of the agreement, acting on the logic of an allegedly fabricated one. it is provocative that the business groups involved are given not only financing but even tax breaks for the creation of 'special economic zones' in order to invest funds ostensibly to provide food for the people of africa. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the resolution, which is only really intended to mislead and conceal the unrelenting truth: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report on the evaluation of international accounting standards (ias) and the activities of the international financial reporting standards institute (ifrs), the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) and the public interest oversight board (piob) is an attempt to incorporate internationally agreed standards into european legislation. i voted in favour of this report, alongside the group of the party of european socialists and democrats, as it promotes accounting standards to ensure financial stability and sustainable development and the deep reform of the process of preparing and applying accounting standards to ensure transparency and accountability.
in writing. ‒ the report on the evaluation of international accounting standards (ias) and the activities of the international financial reporting standards institute (ifrs), the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) and the public interest oversight board (piob) provides an opportunity to focus on technical issues of a financial nature, with a view to reducing the risks of irregularities and unlawful conduct carried out to the detriment of the public interest and citizens. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ european public and private sector entities at national and european level have different views and interests on the development of accounting standards. international financial reporting standards as part of eu law impose a level playing field in a single market structured to benefit the strong economies of eu member states and prevent the development of the corresponding weak ones.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the european public and private sector entities at national and european level have different views and interests on the development of accounting standards. international financial reporting standards as part of eu law impose a level playing field in a single market structured to benefit the strong economies of eu member states and prevent the development of the corresponding weak ones. for these reasons i am voting against the report on the international accounting standards (ias) assessment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the evaluation of international accounting standards (ias) and the activities of the international financial reporting standards (ifrs), the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) and the public interest oversight board, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 6 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the european public and private sector entities at national and european level have different views and interests on the development of accounting standards. international financial reporting standards as part of eu law impose a level playing field in a single market that is structured to benefit the strong economies of eu member states and does not allow the development of the corresponding weak ones.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report addresses the issue of european cooperation in un initiatives for peace support operations in africa, including missions and operations for security and defence in the region. i voted in favour of the report because the group of the party of european socialists considers africa and the security of the wider region to be a priority.
in writing. ‒ the the vote on the report on peace support operations and eu cooperation with the un and the african union is part of the effort to promote peace on a global scale. although the initial target is positive, i consider the strategy being pursued to be clearly conservative, as it pushes for stricter surveillance, cooperation between military organisations and the eu, while at the same time avoiding to deal with the negative impact of the presence of western military forces in the region. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ no, because when the eu, in cooperation with other international organisations, intervenes in the internal affairs of third countries, it always creates bigger problems than there were. in the name of democracy, he's committed crimes.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on peace support operations - eu cooperation with the un and the african union, because when the eu, in cooperation with other international organisations, intervenes in the internal affairs of third countries, it always creates bigger problems than there are. in the name of democracy, he's committed crimes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on peace support operations - eu cooperation with the un and the african union, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 6 june 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. the false documents called 'peace support operations', whether under the guise of relevant un missions or autonomously within the framework of cfsp, have been the pretext and vehicle of brutal imperialist interventions and wars of the eu, in conjunction with nato, all over the world. the report expresses the sharpening of the aggressiveness of the monopolies represented by the eu and its contradictions with the other imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries, particularly on the african continent. it called for the military capabilities, financing and action of such imperialist enterprises of the eu to be strengthened with greater economic and military participation by its member states, wherever it is necessary to promote the positions of its business groups. it promotes the formation and strengthening of alliances with local bourgeois classes and their associations in africa, such as the african union, to counter the geopolitical influence of its competitors. the people of the region are on their guard. they have bitter experience of the eu's military interventions under various guises, such as in libya, mali, the central african republic, somalia, the sahel countries and niger, which are a permanent military buffer and shape the conditions for the profitable action of the monopoly groups by the savage exploitation of its resources and peoples.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ when the eu, in cooperation with other international organisations, intervenes in the internal affairs of third countries, it always creates bigger problems than there were. in the name of democracy, he has committed crimes
in writing. the false documents called 'peace support operations', whether under the guise of relevant un missions or autonomously within the framework of cfsp, have been the pretext and vehicle of brutal imperialist interventions and wars of the eu, in conjunction with nato, all over the world. the report expresses the sharpening of the aggressiveness of the monopolies represented by the eu and its contradictions with the other imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries, particularly on the african continent. it called for the military capabilities, financing and action of such imperialist enterprises of the eu to be strengthened with greater economic and military participation by its member states, wherever it is necessary to promote the positions of its business groups. it promotes the formation and strengthening of alliances with local bourgeois classes and their associations in africa, such as the african union, to counter the geopolitical influence of its competitors. the people of the region are on their guard. they have bitter experience of the eu's military interventions under various guises, such as in libya, mali, the central african republic, somalia, the sahel countries and niger, which are a permanent military buffer and shape the conditions for the profitable action of the monopoly groups by the savage exploitation of its resources and peoples.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, with a view to putting an end to unfair trading practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers, especially when trading in a highly concentrated market.
in writing. ‒ today's vote on the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain is a good opportunity to focus on issues that concern the private sector but affect a large part of the european and global economy. i believe that unfair practices by supply chain operators are not only economically harmful to citizens but also harm their health, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report as we agree that transparency and information in the supply chain must be increased. framework legislation at eu level is necessary to tackle utps (unfair commercial practices) and to ensure that european farmers and consumers have the opportunity to benefit from equal conditions of purchase and sale.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report, as i agree that transparency and information in the supply chain must be increased. framework legislation at eu level is necessary to tackle utps (unfair commercial practices) and to ensure that european farmers and consumers have the opportunity to benefit from equal conditions of purchase and sale.
in writing. ‒ the the aim of this report is to highlight the issue of unfair commercial practices which are often applied in business relationships and are usually imposed by the party with the strongest position in the market. it is clear that such practices, especially in the food supply chain, affect not only smes and their ability to invest and innovate, but also the eu economy as a whole. given the widespread nature of the phenomenon, especially in the midst of an economic crisis, and the different approaches adopted by the member states, it is necessary to adopt eu rules to ensure the smooth functioning of trade relations and to promote alternative ways of resolving trade disputes, in order to also address the 'fear factor' that prevents weaker parties from taking legal action. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. the report identifies some flagrant practices of profiteering and speculation in the food supply chain, which it regards as exceptional and a 'distortion' of competition. the commission therefore proposes, under the guise of strengthening the competitiveness of enterprises, measures such as the creation of a 'business platform' for the exchange of 'best practices', 'codes of conduct' or the 'corporate social responsibility' of enterprises. in other words, it gives the task to business groups, which operate solely on the basis of their profits, to 'self-regulate' their activities. the creation of business alliances to control producer prices and markets, the relentless competition with other groups and the destruction of the self-employed and small firms are the conditions of operation of monopoly capitalism in the conditions of domination of large business groups and not "competition malfunctions", as the report tries to misleadingly present. this is the capitalist mode of production in the monopoly stage. the pursuit of profit and exploitation will only end with the overthrow of the power of the monopolies and their socialization, with the people in power.
in writing. ‒ we agree that transparency and information in the supply chain must be increased. framework legislation at eu level is necessary to tackle utps (unfair commercial practices) and to ensure that european farmers and consumers have the opportunity to benefit from equal conditions of purchase and sale.
in writing. the report identifies some flagrant practices of profiteering and speculation in the food supply chain, which it regards as exceptional and a 'distortion' of competition. the commission therefore proposes, under the guise of strengthening the competitiveness of enterprises, measures such as the creation of a 'business platform' for the exchange of 'best practices', 'codes of conduct' or the 'corporate social responsibility' of enterprises. in other words, it gives the task to business groups, which operate solely on the basis of their profits, to 'self-regulate' their activities. the creation of business alliances to control producer prices and markets, the relentless competition with other groups and the destruction of the self-employed and small firms are the conditions of operation of monopoly capitalism in the conditions of domination of large business groups and not "competition malfunctions", as the report tries to misleadingly present. this is the capitalist mode of production in the monopoly stage. the pursuit of profit and exploitation will only end with the overthrow of the power of the monopolies and their socialization, with the people in power.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture because we must ensure that tomorrow's agriculture will be sustainable and able to feed an ever-growing population. however, intensive farming is not the only answer to these challenges. we have to deal with the food waste first. innovation and research must accompany the future of agriculture, but always with a view to safe and healthy food, to improving the environment, and not only to protecting it but also to reducing the consumption of chemicals such as fertilisers and pesticides. the precautionary principle should always be at the centre of any authorisation of new plant protection products.
in writing. ‒ the the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu is a very important issue which will have a major impact on the lives of european citizens in the long term. the need to find solutions to the problems facing the agricultural sector, particularly in view of the environmental burden, is obvious. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ as the world's population will reach nine billion by 2050, we need to find ways to radically change our approach to production. this report builds on the horizon 2020 programme, combining research with innovation and focusing on three key areas: scientific excellence, industrial excellence and societal challenges. the aim is to ensure that europe produces world-class science and technology that drive economic growth. the challenges of sustainable agriculture over time must be met with a common approach and not with technological solutions that will have a major environmental impact on the natural wealth of the member states, which is why we are voting against report a8-0174/2016.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the as the world's population reaches nine billion by 2050, we need to find ways to radically change our approach to production. this report builds on the horizon 2020 programme, combining research with innovation and focusing on three key areas: scientific excellence, industrial excellence and societal challenges. the aim is to ensure that europe produces world-class science and technology that drive economic growth. the challenges of sustainable agriculture over time must be met with a common approach and not with technological solutions that will have a major environmental impact on the natural wealth of the member states, which is why i am voting against report a8-0174/2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 6 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
in writing. the report highlights the eu's efforts to boost innovation and technology on farms through 'smart farming' or 'precision agriculture'. it sets out the conditions for ensuring the competitiveness of capitalist farms in the eu. it is moving in the direction of the cap to accelerate and strengthen entrepreneurship in the agricultural sector. it opens the way for the development and cultivation of gmos, stating directly that 'the potential of eu gm crops is not being systematically tapped in european farms, where yields have stagnated in recent years', or elsewhere with veiled formalities. the promotion of innovation and research in agricultural production, as proposed in the report, is linked to the struggle of business groups to acquire new, increasingly modern means of production, seeking lower production costs that increase their profitability. under capitalism the direction and orientation of innovation and research serves the interests of capitalist enterprises, not the satisfaction of the needs of the people, while at the same time the poor middle class farmers are being exterminated and food products are becoming very expensive and increasingly dangerous and unfit for consumption by the workers. the only way out is the alliance of workers, poor and middle peasants, self-employed against monopolies and capitalism.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the as the world's population reaches nine billion by 2050, we need to find ways to radically change our approach to production. this report builds on the horizon 2020 programme, combining research with innovation and focusing on three key areas: scientific excellence, industrial excellence and societal challenges. the aim is to ensure that europe produces world-class science and technology that drive economic growth. the challenges of sustainable agriculture over time must be met by a common approach and not by technological solutions which will have a major environmental impact on the natural wealth of the member states.
in writing. the report highlights the eu's efforts to boost innovation and technology on farms through 'smart farming' or 'precision agriculture'. it sets out the conditions for ensuring the competitiveness of capitalist farms in the eu. it is moving in the direction of the cap to accelerate and strengthen entrepreneurship in the agricultural sector. it opens the way for the development and cultivation of gmos, stating directly that 'the potential of eu gm crops is not being systematically tapped in european farms, where yields have stagnated in recent years', or elsewhere with veiled formalities. the promotion of innovation and research in agricultural production, as proposed in the report, is linked to the struggle of business groups to acquire new, increasingly modern means of production, seeking lower production costs that increase their profitability. under capitalism the direction and orientation of innovation and research serves the interests of capitalist enterprises, not the satisfaction of the needs of the people, while at the same time the poor middle class farmers are being exterminated and food products are becoming very expensive and increasingly dangerous and unfit for consumption by the workers. the only way out is the alliance of workers, poor and middle peasants, self-employed against monopolies and capitalism.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the promotion of innovation and economic development in the context of the future european farm management, because the demographic challenges of tomorrow will require adaptations both in food production and in the way in which it is consumed and disposed of. better management of natural resources is the key to sustainable agriculture. some of the techniques that can help reduce fertilizer use are better soil and water management, such as precision agriculture and real-time data monitoring. but at the same time we have to deal with food waste. the problem of food waste must be tackled at all levels of the food chain from production, processing and retailers to consumers, as 33% of food waste is generated by consumers.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the promotion of innovation and economic development in the context of the future european farm management aims to improve agricultural production conditions by supporting new technologies. although this seems to be a positive development, i believe that the agricultural sector in europe is threatened mainly by the unequal distribution of resources and the dependence on companies specialising in the production of chemicals and pharmaceuticals. i therefore believe that we should support producers where they really need it, and i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the there are significant challenges to be addressed in order to accelerate and stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship in the agricultural sector. the report advocates a common agricultural policy which will focus more on the needs of farmers without compromising policy objectives. we reject the report because we agree that the adoption of new technologies by the agricultural sector will ensure the flourishing of the rural economy. young farmers, the environment and health are priorities and can benefit from these innovations.
in writing. ‒ the there are significant challenges to be addressed in order to accelerate and stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship in the agricultural sector. the report advocates a common agricultural policy which will focus more on the needs of farmers without compromising policy objectives. i am voting against the report because i agree that the adoption of new technologies by the agricultural sector will ensure the flourishing of the rural economy. young farmers, the environment and health are priorities and can benefit from these innovations.
in writing. ‒ in the midst of demographical, dietary, environmental and economic changes, the agricultural sector will have to deal with an increased food demand and to ensure new methods of production. some stakeholders continue to emphasise the potential of technology and innovation in order for the common agricultural policy to cope with these issues. the report, for instance, aligns agricultural innovative technology with job creation and improved operations management. however, this technologically centralised approach could generate a new challenge for local varieties and small scale-farmers, mostly due to the competition with industrialised food production. therefore, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the promotion of innovation and economic development in the context of the future european farm management for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 6 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. the report, taking as a starting point the fact that agriculture lags behind other sectors of the capitalist economy in terms of the integration of innovation and technology, calls for investment to be increased and for the conditions of profitability to be ensured for the monopoly groups in the sector. in greece, banking groups and food monopolies are already active in this direction. the problems identified in the report, such as pollution and the productivity of land, water, product quality, etc., are being tackled in the context of the eu's strategy for competitiveness, exploiting its comparative advantages over other imperialist countries in the 'green economy', the quality of agricultural products, innovation and the use of new technologies. it calls for the replacement of public by private systems of insurance against production disasters. it seeks adjustments aimed at maximising yield and profits, expanding markets and business, further boosting capitalist development, concentration and concentration in agriculture. the only way to harness scientific and technological achievements for the benefit of the people is to socialize the concentrated means of production by popular power, to organize the economy by central planning, to develop research and innovation in line with popular needs.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the there are significant challenges to be addressed in order to accelerate and stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship in the agricultural sector. the report advocates a common agricultural policy which will focus more on the needs of farmers without compromising policy objectives. we agree that the adoption of new technologies by the agricultural sector will ensure the flourishing of the rural economy. young farmers, the environment and health are priorities and can benefit from these innovations.
in writing. the report, taking as a starting point the fact that agriculture lags behind other sectors of the capitalist economy in terms of the integration of innovation and technology, calls for investment to be increased and for the conditions of profitability to be ensured for the monopoly groups in the sector. in greece, banking groups and food monopolies are already active in this direction. the problems identified in the report, such as pollution and the productivity of land, water, product quality, etc., are being tackled in the context of the eu's strategy for competitiveness, exploiting its comparative advantages over other imperialist countries in the 'green economy', the quality of agricultural products, innovation and the use of new technologies. it calls for the replacement of public by private systems of insurance against production disasters. it seeks adjustments aimed at maximising yield and profits, expanding markets and business, further boosting capitalist development, concentration and concentration in agriculture. the only way to harness scientific and technological achievements for the benefit of the people is to socialize the concentrated means of production by popular power, to organize the economy by central planning, to develop research and innovation in line with popular needs.
the commission madam president, anyone who has not visited hotspots, refugee detention centres on the greek islands or open camps in the rest of greece can be misled by the racist poison of nazi golden dawn and its european allies. let us think about what it would be like if you left your country to escape war, poverty and were imprisoned and in danger of deportation, because the european union does not consider you a refugee. being locked in a detention center with your kids in a tent, in the cold, the rain and the unbearable sun. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of food, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals made by the rapporteur, mr von wogau, and the rapporteur, mr von der vring, on the subject of the food aid. the refugees say: 'we are not living! we just breathe; we have no future. the european union-turkey agreement makes turkey the last regulator of the refugee flows, which today are being diverted towards italy with hundreds drowning and in a bargain can be repeated making the situation intolerable. the european parliament has been a party to the european council in athens, and it has been a party to the european council in strasbourg, and it has been a party to the european council in strasbourg. only the communist party of greece calls on the greek people together with the refugees to fight for their immediate transportation under the responsibility of the state and the un to their destination countries, by ensuring open, dignified human spaces of hospitality, for as long as they remain in greece, with all the necessary infrastructure and services.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the main joint effort of the un and the eu states in the years ahead must therefore be to deal with refugee and migration flows. the european union must therefore take action to combat the traffickers' networks and to press for the implementation of both the agreement with turkey, which continues to blackmail, and the valletta agreement. this means speeding up the return process and setting up hotspots in turkey, lebanon, jordan and african countries for direct resettlement of refugees in the european union. in the long term, a clause must be imposed for the distribution of migrants at the level of the european union, as is the case with refugees. refugees and migration require a comprehensive approach, and this means resources to tackle poverty in developing countries and support for development and investment in middle eastern and african countries, provided that human rights are respected there.
the commission madam president, we are discussing a plan to tackle the root causes of migration. but i wonder what happened to the old ones. did they succeed or failed? do they need updating or are they outdated? the only thing that is certain is that there is no one to take responsibility and to say with courage and truth that he has failed, to whisper a mea culpa. so far you have failed miserably. the border fences in the balkan countries and the use of article 25 of the schengen treaty by the member states are proof of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further worsened. the commission is proposing to review the blue card for highly skilled illegal immigrants, as unemployment among young scientists is rising. you speak of the integration and absorption of illegal immigrants, when we know full well that they come from countries with a mentality and religious beliefs outside any concept of the rule of law and peaceful coexistence. finally, someone takes responsibility for the failure! now your failed policies are being stained with the blood of innocent people in paris, brussels, copenhagen and the aegean. it is now measured by suicide statistics, by young people being uprooted from their homelands, by increased rates of depression and addiction to psychotropic substances. finally, i would like to return to the blood-soaked kke and its member of parliament for his stalinist comments on golden dawn.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the european commission is talking about an agreement on migration with the central ideas of controlling the union's external borders and combating the slave trade in cooperation with african and asian states, following the model of the recent agreement with turkey. but all of this is just temporary management and does not address the substance of the matter. the high levels of migration are due, on the one hand, to the inhumane economic policies of austerity and the absence of a demographic policy within the union, with the result that europe suffers from dramatically low birth rates, and, on the other hand, to poverty and wars in our wider geographical surroundings. we need another policy mix; domestically, to support more child-rearing and job creation for young people, and abroad, to bring peace to the middle east and north africa and improve the living conditions of the people there. if there is no change in policy, the problem will worsen further.
i'll take that. we heard the stinking interpretation of what you said. we're moving on to the next speakers.
s & d) and the mr president, africa's explosive population growth coupled with the immense poverty of some areas and the wars raises a burning question: can mass migration of millions of citizens from africa be part of the solution? the commission, faced with the influx of tens of thousands of economic migrants from africa and beyond, is trying to give a two-pronged answer and says 'no' by proposing a new ambitious framework of cooperation with incentives and disincentives for the countries of africa and our neighbourhood. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, and it is proposing to do so in the next few months. if you convince us that this project will tackle the huge waste of resources and corruption in the implementation of actions through a mechanism of transparency and effective investigation of complaints by civil society, i believe that your proposal will be a valuable contribution. otherwise we risk talking about a bargaining mechanism with officials of african countries, who will increase their privileges while europe pays them to take their citizens back.
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the effort made in recent years to achieve a holistic european approach to migration must be a clear priority of eu foreign policy. europe's responsible attitude towards third countries of origin/transit of economic migrants is crucial. let us not forget that about two thirds of the world's migrants come from less developed countries, with half of them migrating to developed countries. the malta summit, attended by african countries, re-established the guidelines for eu-africa cooperation and confirmed the provision of these actions through the newly established emergency trust fund for stability and migration in africa. however, the processes have since progressed very slowly, partly because these countries do not cooperate effectively with the eu on issues related to tackling irregular migration and, in particular, on the implementation of a more effective return policy. i have recently asked the commission to draw attention to the urgent need to promote readmission agreements with the african countries of origin of economic migrants, with which there is currently no such agreement. at the same time, more incentives should be offered to the cooperating third countries, such as targeted funding and training opportunities to limit migration flows from them.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on:- commission statement on a package of measures on legal migration ((2016/2758 ((rsp))), and- commission statement on an action plan on the integration of third-country nationals (2016/2759 ((rsp)).
i would remind you that according to the rules of procedure, visitors watching the debate from the stands are not allowed to applaud. i am writing this because some may not have considered it.
mr obermayr has asked for a blue card. but i see that it is the turn of the registered speakers to speak after 10 minutes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we're too late. let me be a little strict with your contribution.
the commission madam president, mr avramopoulos, i am totally opposed to the policy of granting work permits to third country nationals, at a time when europe, and particularly the countries of the european south, are plagued by poverty and unemployment. the launching of legal migration flows will lead to even greater unemployment, lower wages and the dismantling of the welfare state. legal migrants settling in the union must be integrated. this means accepting and respecting the constitutional framework and laws of the host state, not ghettoizing, and abandoning various outdated social practices and notions. i therefore welcome the opinion of the advocate general of the court of justice of the european union, who considers the ban on the islamic headscarf in the workplace to be legal. finally, provision should be made for allocation clauses for legal migrants at union level based on population, area, gdp, growth rate and unemployment rate in each member state.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the immigrants who leave their homelands are usually bright minds and gifted people. i wonder whether the new proposal presented today by the commissioner responsible, mr avramopoulos, on behalf of the commission, to attract highly skilled people to the european union through the blue card procedure will not strengthen the phenomenon of 'brain drain', i.e. the leakage of brains from their home countries. i would like to stress that the issue has an intra-european dimension, because there are countries affected by the economic crisis in which this phenomenon is particularly acute, as in greece. i would like an answer to that.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you know that there are 23 million unemployed in europe. are they not suitable or are there not enough of them to fill the gaps that those coming from third countries are supposed to fill? they say that europe's population is ageing and that instead of tackling the phenomenon of low fertility, we are calling on others to fill the gap. in greece, mr avramopoulos, are the young, the talented, the educated and generally those who meet high standards not suitable to fill these positions? will those who come illegally from third countries cover them? do they give you the impression that they are the ones you want to choose? and one last thing: how can they ... the president is taking the floor from the speaker. )
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, if securing jobs for 75% of the european workforce by 2020 is a central objective of 'europe 2020', then the already failed policies and training programmes are not solving the unemployment problem. yes, to upgrade skills, but for what purpose? certainly not the sole service of market interests but that all citizens have better facilities for life through equal access to high quality public education. the blind adaptation of education to the labour market, its commercialisation and the degradation of classical studies have nothing to do with its role and purpose in building free personalities. the new skills agenda must therefore aim to meet people's needs for knowledge and skills and not just meet the needs of businesses.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, commissioner, the new skills agenda you have presented to us in the neoliberal dominant labour framework does not guarantee full labour rights but further deregulates labour relations, leads to reduced training costs, involves companies more and more in the training process and finally claims that the phenomenon of migration of scientists from greece and europe is due to the fact that there is no scientifically qualified and trained staff. this package, commissioner, is doomed, as is your whole policy. you're not interested in the worker. you're interested in corporate profits. the french workers and the young people who have taken to the streets, the belgian unions on strike, the 25% of the unemployed in greece, the 40% of the young unemployed in greece cannot expect anything from these proposals. they are fighting to overthrow neoliberal policies.
ecr), in writing. according to the skills agenda for europe, one of the eu's main employment targets for 2020 is to have 75% of the population aged 20 to 64 in work. however, given the current unemployment rates in europe, this objective seems unattainable for some eu member states. in particular, in countries affected by fiscal austerity, unemployment rates exceed 20%. but unemployment in europe, which is deep and affects millions of citizens, is due to the production model and not to a supposed lack of qualifications. it is the structure of the eu and the eurozone. it is due to merkel's austerity and poverty that leads to underconsumption. it is due to the unequal distribution of wealth produced in the union, with the countries of the south being the champions in unemployment, while germany, with its huge trade surpluses, has an unemployment rate of 4.5%. to reduce unemployment, austerity must be abandoned, the production model in the union must be changed and the very structure of the eu and the eurozone must be changed. at the same time, investment in education, training and digital skills is needed to achieve the objectives of the skills agenda for europe.
the commission the situation in bangladesh is indeed explosive, as this debate has shown. there is a continuing violation of human rights. christian populations and other religious minorities are persecuted. at the same time, a dangerous islamist movement is growing, which attacks journalists and bloggers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is true that bangladesh is an important partner of the european union, since it mainly exports textiles to europe. the european union can therefore exert influence and pressure to ensure that human rights, the rule of law, transparency and democracy are respected.
the commission mr president, the new eu-philippines partnership is important, especially for european multinationals, who are trying to invest in an emerging economy where starvation wages are the norm. at the same time, the philippines, and particularly the mines, do not respect basic labour and social rights, and child labour is a frequent occurrence, involving two million minors. corruption, human rights violations, prosecutions of political opponents are also on the agenda. social inequalities and poverty in the philippines are fertilizer for jihadists, who are showing dangerous action. the eu-philippines partnership agreement, like any free trade agreement with poor countries, will hit the vulnerable sector of small and mediumsized enterprises in the eu member states and increase unemployment. the european union should not, in the name of the profitability of european companies, turn a blind eye to human rights violations, especially when the partnership itself is acting in the interests of big business.
the commission mr president, it is easy to conclude from the revelations of the cia's appalling torture in member states of the european union, in guantanamo and in the united states. the united states, the european union and their governments, which are responsible, have been and are being left untouched. the committees that were set up were literally to wash away the responsibility of the imperialists. it is far too much to portray the european union as a defender of human rights, while at the same time calling for the strengthening of so-called counter-terrorism cooperation with the united states, in whose name you wage imperialist wars and torture. the repressive mechanisms of the united states, the european union, nato and agencies such as the cia, the euro-army, centcom, europol, the new border guard-coast guard are working closely together to strike at the popular movement and the repression of refugees and migrants. they compete with government and industrial espionage for the profits of their monopolies. they funded the nefarious activities of such mechanisms as the islamic state. the people can overthrow the reactionary mechanisms that defend capitalist barbarity by taking power and ownership of the wealth they produce.
the commission mr president, we condemn the torture practices of the cia at guantanamo and other hellholes. the cia's system of secret detention has led to massive human rights violations and horrific torture. secret cia detention included inhuman and degrading treatment, torture, kidnapping, and detention without trial. the use of torture is not allowed and certainly cannot be justified and legitimized for any reason, nor for the alleged disclosure of information in order to defeat terrorism. of course, impunity for the cia's tactics allows the human rights violations to continue. it is therefore necessary for the european union to condemn any form of human rights violation by the cia and to ensure that further investigations are carried out on its member states which, according to the report, were complicit in the cia's intelligence and extraordinary rendition programme.
the commission the european union must stop treating space with the same ideological bias as it treats the other areas of common action. first of all, space policy involves research, that is, human resource development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is unfair that greek astrophysicists are migrating to western europe because they do not have the infrastructure to carry out their research in greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's space policy is not disrupted by the threat of a nuclear war. that would be irresponsible. decisions on space have a direct impact on the security of countries, but may also have long-term consequences for the natural environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's space programme is implemented. space technologies have added value for many sectors such as telecommunications and transport. the european union must cooperate in the field of space not only with the united states and japan but also with other space powers such as russia, india and china, in order to achieve even greater results in cutting-edge space technology, which must finally be put at the service of humanity.
the commission madam president, it is only fanciful to think that the juncker investment plan has so far achieved what it promised when it was first announced in 2014 in order to be elected president of the commission. the commission notes that the union industry has not been able to fully benefit from the measures in force since the beginning of the period considered. i do not consider it a success when this money is directed mainly to the developed countries of the union and not to the countries which are still in an economic crisis, such as greece and cyprus. it is not a success when of the 140,000 smes and midcaps expected to benefit from the scheme there is only one greek and none cypriot. businesses in greece are not shutting down just because they don't have access to finance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. change the policy! if you have achieved anything, it is that you have succeeded in completely destroying my country, by exploiting the unchallenged leftist government and the formerly benevolent governments of the centre. i can congratulate you on that.
the commission madam president, after all the financial instruments, the esdp, the european investment bank, the multi-billion-dollar package, the juncker package, you are still lying. in greece, where every government with syriza in the dirtiest role, considers it its duty to cut back on salaries and pensions, where you pay out of pocket if you have, medical supplies if you want to have surgery in a hospital, it is a challenge to talk about fair development for everyone. who pays for the packages? the workers, of course, with their memoranda, with their taxation, with the ever-increasing vat on the national contribution to the european union, the subsidies and tax breaks to investors, their bank financing, since the recapitalisations of the banks are paid by the people. who benefits? not small businesses, of course, but only large companies in priority sectors not of the people but of capital, such as energy, transport, tourism, guaranteeing investors guaranteed profitability with a minimum of temporary jobs, poorly paid, while another wage cut is being planned. the truth is this: the recovery of capital gains means deeper poverty for the people. it's time to turn it around! it's time to overturn it!
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the juncker fund must be turned around so that there is more investment throughout europe but especially where there is more recession, more poverty, more unemployment, more disinvestment. it is not possible that in 64 projects there is only one project, and it is a small one, in my country, greece, which has suffered greatly in recent years from a great recession and a great disinvestment, and at the same time you finance expensive motorways in rich germany, in rich the netherlands and in the richest parts of these two countries and are criticised by meps from these countries, both dutch and germans, for this injustice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. dear mr olbrycht, i am going to propose to the vice-president of the commission, and i would like your opinion, the creation of a special group for the transfer of know-how to countries with low leverage of european fund for strategic investments (efsi). i'd like your opinion on that.
the commission madam president, mr katainen, the juncker investment plan for greece has failed because the troika, in which the commission is also a member, has imposed a suffocating economic environment on greek society and business. it has cut wages and pensions, resulting in a reduction in purchasing power in the greek market, which discourages investment. the troika has increased indirect taxes and the tax rate on small and mediumsized enterprises, which leads to lock-outs. instead of the troika returning to greece the ecb and central banks, smp and anfa, 10 billion euros by 2020 to finance a new marshall plan for growth, the esm keeps that money. finally, the reference of the greek debt settlement to the greek calendars is burdensome for the economic climate and discourages investment. so the juncker investment plan can only support the greek economy if greece is freed from the memorandum and the troika. that's what you have to understand.
gue/ngl), in writing. we discussed at the plenary session of the european parliament the progress of the juncker investment package, which is intended to stimulate the european economy. the investment package has so far proved shady in terms of its benefits to greece. to date, 64 projects have been approved in europe, totalling 9.3 billion, most of them in large economies such as france, italy, germany, britain and spain, with only one in greece. the european commission proposed on 1 june to extend the investment package for a further three years, without proposing structural changes, to ensure that the necessary funds are channelled into the economies most affected by the economic crisis and austerity policies. if the parameters of the programme are not changed to benefit the weakest economies and if the funds available are not increased, then we are talking about a drop in the ocean and the stimulation of the european economy is doomed to remain on paper only.
the commission madam president, the european union is in a prolonged period of crisis with millions of its citizens living below the poverty line, countries in recession for years and unemployment rampant. have you ever wondered how all those unemployed people and citizens of the countries of the south, such as greece, will react when they learn that the union is spending billions on aid to third countries while imposing onerous memoranda, unbearable taxation and mortgaging national wealth and property? do you know that with a fraction of the money you give to tunisia the homeless who have even slept outside the european parliament building in brussels would have at least a roof over their heads? in addition, the recent duty-free import of olive oil from tunisia has prevented european farmers from increasing their profits. in greece, which was one of the few countries that this year produced high quality olive oil and its producers had the opportunity to see their income increase, with this subversive move you have lowered the price so much that they will not be able to recover even their production costs. history teaches us that whenever western countries have intervened in the rest of the world, the result has been nothing but manipulation and exploitation. you're doing it again, this time wearing a philanthropic mask. it is therefore better to try to solve some of europe's many problems and let third countries develop as they can. they'll do better than you in europe.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above motion for a resolution setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and instances of maladministration in the application of union law on money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance, and determining its tasks and duration.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the we reject the proposal for a decision on the establishment and powers of the committee of inquiry to investigate breaches and forms of maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. given that these illegal activities are increasingly a scourge for each member state, the committee is deemed necessary, as natural and mainly legal persons exploit legal loopholes in tax systems to avoid paying their taxes, which results in the further burden on the rest of the taxpayers. the committee should therefore be set up and made fully use of in order to achieve greater transparency, to combat tax evasion and avoidance and to achieve a fairer distribution of the tax burden for european taxpayers.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the proposal for a decision on the establishment and powers of the committee of inquiry to investigate breaches and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. given that these illegal activities are increasingly a scourge for each member state, the committee is deemed necessary, as natural and mainly legal persons exploit legal loopholes in tax systems to avoid paying their taxes, which results in the further burden on the rest of the taxpayers. the committee should therefore be set up and made fully use of in order to achieve greater transparency, to combat tax evasion and avoidance and to achieve a fairer distribution of the tax burden for european taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the establishment, definition of responsibilities, numerical composition and term of office of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and instances of maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the proposal for a decision on the establishment and powers of the committee of inquiry is designed to investigate breaches and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. given that these illegal activities are increasingly a scourge for each member state, the committee is deemed necessary, as natural and mainly legal persons exploit legal loopholes in tax systems to avoid paying their taxes, which results in the further burden on the rest of the taxpayers. the committee should therefore be set up and made fully use of in order to achieve greater transparency, to combat tax evasion and avoidance and to achieve a fairer distribution of the tax burden for european taxpayers.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation of the agreement between the eu and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver, as this agreement will create opportunities and advantages for european citizens, as any visa requirement for european citizens to travel to these countries will be abolished.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the recommendation on the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver is a step towards improving relations between the two sides, also aiming at improving the conditions of movement and living of citizens. i think that the commission has a duty to do something about this.
in writing. ‒ the it is entirely wrong to consider that the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a decisive contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau and is a complementary means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, and it is also wrong to consider that there is a high degree of trust in visa applicants, which is reflected in the low refusal rate. as with the other cotonou countries, it is unthinkable to follow the practice of signing visa waiver agreements and provisionally putting them into effect before they are approved by the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is entirely wrong to consider that the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a decisive contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau and is a complementary means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, and it is also wrong to consider that there is a high degree of trust in visa applicants, which is reflected in the low refusal rate. as with the other cotonou countries, it is unthinkable to follow the practice of signing visa waiver agreements and provisionally putting them into effect before they are approved by the european parliament. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on asylum.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the it is entirely wrong to consider that the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a decisive contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau and is a complementary means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, and it is also wrong to consider that there is a high degree of trust in visa applicants, which is reflected in the low refusal rate. as with the other cotonou countries, it is unthinkable to follow the practice of signing visa waiver agreements and provisionally putting them into effect before they are approved by the european parliament.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation of the agreement between the eu and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver, as this agreement will create opportunities and advantages for european citizens, as any visa requirement for european citizens to travel to this country is abolished.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the recommendation on the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver is a step towards improving relations between the two sides, also with a view to improving the conditions of movement and residence of citizens. i think that the commission has a duty to do something about this.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the eu has not yet adopted a comprehensive approach to the problem of illegal immigration, and the eu is not yet ready to take action on the issue of illegal immigration. the visa requirement for short stays could be lifted, but there are no measurable data and no real-world tests in areas related to public order and security, as well as to the union's external relations with this country.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the eu-tonga agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, as tonga as a country does not theoretically represent any threat to the eu, either in terms of illegal immigration or in terms of security and public order, and the short-stay visa requirement could be lifted, but there are no measurable data and no tests have been carried out under real conditions in areas related to public order and security, as well as to the union's external relations with this country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the eu has not yet adopted a comprehensive approach to the problem of illegal immigration, and the eu is not yet ready to take action on the issue of illegal immigration. the visa requirement for short stays could be lifted, but there are no measurable data and no real-world tests in areas related to public order and security, as well as to the union's external relations with this country.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the recommendation for the agreement between the eu and colombia on the short-stay visa waiver, as this agreement will create opportunities and advantages for european citizens, as any visa requirement for european citizens to travel to this country is abolished. the agreement also includes a joint declaration on cooperation on irregular migration in which the eu and colombia reaffirm their commitments to readmit illegal migrants.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the recommendation on the agreement between the european union and colombia on the short-stay visa waiver is a step towards improving relations between the two sides, also with a view to improving the conditions of movement and residence of citizens. i think that the commission has a duty to do something about this.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the colombia, a typical south american country, faces numerous challenges due to long-running internal conflicts, drug cartels and the dangers of illegal immigration. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. in this context, any agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a political and moral mistake.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the colombia, a typical south american country, faces numerous challenges due to long-running internal conflicts, drug cartels and the dangers of illegal immigration. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. in this context, any agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a political and moral mistake. for these reasons, i am voting against the eu-colombia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the colombia, a typical south american country, faces numerous challenges due to long-running internal conflicts, drug cartels and the dangers of illegal immigration. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. in this context, any agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a political and moral mistake.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement in the form of a declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology products (itis), as this expansion will strengthen the eu's manufacturing industry by allowing easier access to new markets.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the abolition and zeroing of customs duties for technology and information products for up to seven years, through the ita agreement, will lead to lower prices, increased competitiveness, but above all to job creation and an increase in gross domestic product. we therefore vote in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement in the form of a declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology products (itis) in order to ensure development and technological progress in all areas.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the abolition and zeroing of customs duties for technology and information products for up to seven years, through the ita agreement, will lead to lower prices, increased competitiveness, but above all to job creation and an increase in gross domestic product. i therefore vote in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement in the form of a declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology products (itis) in order to ensure development and technological progress in all areas.
in writing. ‒ the the directive is concerned with the expansion of trade in information technology products. i believe that the expansion of trade in information technology products is mainly to the benefit of large companies. information technology has been seen as a tool to help developing countries, but instead it increases the dependence of poor countries, it increases the technological and economic gap between industrialized and developing countries. developing countries lose revenue from duties paid on the import of information technology through this tool. i therefore voted against the directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement in the form of a declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology products, because it is not complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the abolition and zeroing of customs duties for technology and information products for up to seven years, through the ita agreement, will lead to lower prices, increased competitiveness, but above all to job creation and an increase in gross domestic product. we therefore vote in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement in the form of a declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology products (itis) in order to ensure development and technological progress in all areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision to subject the new psychotropic substance 1-phenyl-2- ((pyrrolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (a-pyrrolidinobalenoyl phenone, α-pvp) to control measures, as it is important to protect against risks that can be created by its availability and use.
in writing. ‒ the report on the draft council decision to subject the new psychotropic substance 1-phenyl-2- ((pyrrolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (a-pyrrolidinobalerophenone, α-pvp) to control measures is clear that it is an attempt to protect the health of citizens. as i consider that any action to control and monitor substances administered to citizens is a positive and legitimate measure for the benefit of europeans, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ each new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against report a8-0175/2016, as any new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision to subject the new psychotropic substance 1-phenyl-2- ((pyrrolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (a-pyrrolidinobalenoyl phenone, α-pvp) to control measures because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ each new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
in writing. ‒ the the provisional report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the member states, in the interest of the european union, to the 2010 protocol to the 1996 international convention on civil liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea focuses on a complex but important issue. the aim of improving judicial mechanisms to ensure that justice is delivered more quickly and more correctly is to protect european citizens better. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, because firstly, preventive measures should be taken for the transport of harmful goods by sea and then there should be the strictest fines for those responsible for environmental disasters in the event of an accident.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against ratifying and acceding to the 2010 protocol to the convention on hazardous and noxious substances with the exception of aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters, because first preventive measures should be taken for the transport of dangerous goods by sea and then there should be the strictest fines for those responsible for environmental disasters in the event of an accident.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the member states, in the interest of the european union, to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on civil liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with the exception of aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ firstly, preventive measures should be taken for the transport of harmful goods by sea and then there should be strict fines for those responsible for environmental disasters in the event of an accident.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, since there should be common laws and regulations between states on such a serious issue as the transport of harmful materials by sea. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against ratifying and acceding to the 2010 protocol to the convention on dangerous and noxious substances with the exception of aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters, as there should be common laws and regulations between states on such a serious issue concerning the transport of harmful materials by sea. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the member states, in the interest of the european union, to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on civil liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with the exception of aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ there should be common laws and regulations between states on such a serious issue as the transport of harmful materials by sea. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the the recommendation on the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union is part of the wider effort to develop europe's relations with the republic of the philippines. i believe that we should support the development of these relations, since they could have positive effects on security, economic and political issues. but in this case we see a pressure being exerted on the issue of surveillance and a heavy military presence in the wider philippine area, which i find to be the opposite. i therefore decided to abstain in all aspects of the vote on this recommendation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu, in its traditional way and method and by means of various tricks, is trying to create problems in member states with various agreements with third countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (accession of croatia). the eu, in its traditional way and method and by means of various tricks, is trying to create problems in member states by means of various agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 8 june 2016, and because the recommendation is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu, in its traditional way and method and by means of various tricks, is trying to create problems in member states with various agreements with third countries.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, is hereby approved. i voted in favour of this report, alongside the socialists and democrats in the european parliament, as it is an important step towards partnership with an important partner of the eu in the wider region. it is very important for our group, however, to give particular weight to respect for labour, social and environmental rights, and to effective monitoring and enforcement of fair trade provisions.
in writing. ‒ the the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, forms part of the wider effort to develop europe's relations with that state. i believe that we should support the development of these relations, since they could have positive effects on security, economic and political issues. but in this case we see a pressure being exerted on the issue of surveillance and a heavy military presence in the wider philippine area, which i find to be the opposite. i therefore decided to abstain in all aspects of the vote on this recommendation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ no, for the same reason as above, as regards the conclusion of agreements with the philippines.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (approved). the eu, in its traditional way and method and by means of various tricks, is trying to create problems in member states by means of various agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 8 june 2016, and because the recommendation is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu, in its traditional way and method and by means of various tricks, is trying to create problems in member states with various agreements with third countries.
s&d), in writing. ‒ taking into account the progress made in the country and the positive impact of the eu-philippines framework partnership and cooperation agreement, i voted in favour of this resolution and we now await its transmission by the president to the council, the commission, the european external action service, the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, the governments and parliaments of the member states and the government and parliament of the republic of the philippines.
in writing. ‒ the the report containing a proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, forms part of the wider effort to develop europe's relations with that state. i believe that we should support the development of these relations, since they could have positive effects on security, economic and political issues. but in this case we see a pressure being exerted on the issue of surveillance and a heavy military presence in the wider philippine area, which i find to be the opposite. i therefore decided to abstain in all aspects of the vote on this recommendation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ negative, because under the pretext of human rights and democracy, investments are made in countries like the philippines, which creates huge problems in eu member states that need investments. the multinationals, in their own way, because of the high profits they make by exploiting the local population in third countries, are also destroying trade in europe.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (resolution) because under the pretext of human rights and democracy, investments are made in countries like the philippines, which creates huge problems in eu member countries that need investments. the multinationals, in their own way, because of the high profits they make by exploiting the local population in third countries, are also destroying trade in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 8 june 2016, and because this recommendation is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ investments are made in countries like the philippines under the pretext of human rights and democracy, creating huge problems in eu member states that need investments. the multinationals, in their own way, because of the high profits they make by exploiting the local population in third countries, are also destroying trade in europe.
madam president, i was happy to support this motion for a resolution because i am convinced that it is in the geopolitical interest of the european union that tunisia should continue to be a relatively democratic and prosperous country. yesterday, we had a debate here about migration, about the need to work with countries in north africa, in the middle east, to create buffer zones, to eliminate potential problems of migration. and certainly, this philosophy includes supporting tunisia as one of the few countries in north africa that is relatively doing well and that is prospering. but most importantly, it's moving towards democracy and the rule of law. because of the terrorist attacks and the influx of tourists, this country has certain economic problems, and therefore it is geopolitically and strategically correct to help this country and provide it with money to overcome this, let's say, short-term economic imbalance.
the commission madam president, i voted against the resolution on macro-economic aid to tunisia, where the new government has failed to improve the economy of the country, which is now moving towards political lebanonization. at the same time, islamists entered the political life of the country. in addition, tunisia has been a base for the operation of slave trade rings, for the smuggling of refugees and illegal immigrants both in the past and in recent weeks, as ships full of desperate people are arriving again in lampedusa and in crete. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and it is therefore not justified to give macro-economic support to that country without clearly stipulating that it must be able to deal with illegal immigration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. for this reason, we have already voted against the duty-free import of tunisian oil for 2016 and 2017, an import of oil that led to a dramatic fall in prices in greece and a consequent loss of income for greek oil producers impoverished by the memorandum.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the eu has supported tunisia in its effort to transition to democracy despite the setback caused by the terrorist attacks of 2015. the socialist group in the european parliament and i personally voted in favour of this report, as we consider that additional macrofinancial assistance to tunisia is necessary as a measure to consolidate democracy in the country, create a friendly environment for investment and tackle the high unemployment rates.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on the granting of further macrofinancial assistance to tunisia. the two sides have developed relations and contacts, and the provision of assistance to ensure the living conditions of civilians is important. however, in a period of imposing severe and even inhumane austerity policies on the citizens of the union, i do not think it is possible to increase the existing aid that europe is providing to third countries. therefore, i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the same mistakes as those made in the eu-turkey agreement, where money is given for so-called development and democratization to stop the flow of migrants, instead of being given to combat poverty and austerity in european countries, are a great political and moral mistake. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a typical example is the increase in vat on mfi's in greece to 24% with a budgetary gain of only 5 million euros!!! the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia, in particular in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the same mistakes as those made in the eu-turkey agreement, where money is given for so-called development and democratization to stop the flow of migrants, instead of being given to combat poverty and austerity in european countries, are a great political and moral mistake. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a typical example is the increase in vat on mfi's in greece to 24% with a budgetary gain of only 5 million euros!!! the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia, in particular in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia.
in writing. ‒ despite the on-going democratic transition of tunisia, the country still faces huge challenges relative to security, unemployment and vulnerable political context. it is important for europe to show solidarity in order to bring back the country in its reform process. however, i decided to abstain. i believe that the generalisation of neoliberal agendas as well as the assistance, in the form of medium-term loans, to countries with an already high external debt, could create unintended consequences as they could further increase country’s foreign debt. hence, compensatory mechanisms should be created.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the same mistakes as those made in the eu-turkey agreement, where money is given for so-called development and democratization to stop the flow of migrants, instead of being given to combat poverty and austerity in european countries, are a great political and moral mistake. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a typical example is the increase in vat on mfi's in greece to 24% with a budgetary gain of only 5 million euros!!! the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia, in particular in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on rules against certain tax avoidance practices which refers to the fight against fraud and tax evasion as top political priorities, in the context of social justice and transparency.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the introduction of rules against tax evasion practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market is one of the most pressing issues of our time. the need to impose rules against tax evasion is obvious, but it is also capable of producing significant benefits at both economic and social level. however, this report does not ensure that uniform rules are imposed on all the actors involved. that is why i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the existence of common rules in all the member states of the union for combating tax evasion by companies, with the exception of financial institutions and insurance companies, does not do justice to the situation. it favours the stronger economies and promotes the stronger implementation of the single market by imposing policies which, instead of helping the economically weaker countries, lead them into complete control by their stronger counterparts.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report, as the existence of common rules in all eu member states for combating corporate tax evasion, with the exception of financial institutions and insurance companies, does not do justice. it favours the stronger economies and promotes the stronger implementation of the single market by imposing policies which, instead of helping the economically weaker countries, lead them into complete control by their stronger counterparts.
in writing. ‒ the report on the introduction of rules against tax evasion is a report that was discussed a lot in the parliamentary committee. the report was based on the commission's action plan for fair and efficient corporate taxation. i have abstained, however, because some amendments are against me.
in writing. ‒ recalling the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 7 june 2016, i abstained in the vote on the report on the proposal for a council directive on the establishment of rules against tax evasion practices directly affecting the functioning of the internal market, because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. the commission proposal and the european parliament report reflect the sharpening of the contradictions between the imperialist centres and sections of capital, the need for the eu to take measures to protect its internal market and its monopoly groups. it is not aimed at, nor is it sufficient for, a tax relief for the lower classes. in a world of free movement of capital, multiple laws to legally avoid taxation by businesses and special tax regimes, the tax burden falls on the shoulders of the working people. it is no coincidence that in the eu-28 corporate taxation represents only 2.5% of gdp out of 40% of total taxation. the cpe was placed in white because the proposed arrangements do not change the specific correlation, they serve the same class orientation of eu tax policy. it is not by chance that measures which could lead to a shift of the tax burden to large capital are excluded, such as full denomination of shares, effective abolition of commercial and other secrets, taxation of all distributed and non-profit corporations, taxation of the current value of shares and changes in this value. the aim of eu policy and of this directive is to regulate competition between competing economic interests of different parts of the capital.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the existence of common rules in all the member states of the union for combating tax evasion by companies, with the exception of financial institutions and insurance companies, does not do justice to the situation. it favours the stronger economies and promotes the stronger implementation of the single market by imposing policies which, instead of helping the economically weaker countries, lead them into complete control by their stronger counterparts.
in writing. the commission proposal and the european parliament report reflect the sharpening of the contradictions between the imperialist centres and sections of capital, the need for the eu to take measures to protect its internal market and its monopoly groups. it is not aimed at, nor is it sufficient for, a tax relief for the lower classes. in a world of free movement of capital, multiple laws to legally avoid taxation by businesses and special tax regimes, the tax burden falls on the shoulders of the working people. it is no coincidence that in the eu-28 corporate taxation represents only 2.5% of gdp out of 40% of total taxation. the cpe was placed in white because the proposed arrangements do not change the specific correlation, they serve the same class orientation of eu tax policy. it is not by chance that measures which could lead to a shift of the tax burden to large capital are excluded, such as full denomination of shares, effective abolition of commercial and other secrets, taxation of all distributed and non-profit corporations, taxation of the current value of shares and changes in this value. the aim of eu policy and of this directive is to regulate competition between competing economic interests of different parts of the capital.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the follow-up to the parliament's resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia, because it reiterates the belief that ordinary trials in civilian courts are the best way to resolve the guantanamo regime. the european union is also calling for the release of all those detained by the us authorities and for the immediate prosecution of those detained by the us authorities, and for their trial in accordance with international standards on the rule of law or their release. it then stresses in this context that the same fair trial standards must apply to all without exception.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the follow-up to the parliament's resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. i think it is obvious what this means for the protection of european citizens and for europe's attitude to the use of torture. i think that we should take a clear line of condemnation against such practices, and i therefore voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the us central intelligence agency is proven to have secret detention centres within european territory, to bribe governments, organisations and bodies, to promote corruption and to violate human rights and the presumption of innocence in most cases. the pretext of fighting terrorism is dangerously shifting the balance between governments, parliaments and the judiciary. the european institutions, the european court of human rights, all the so-called guardians of the protection of fundamental rights, benefit from the political persecution of nationalist movements and are only stopped in cases that are in their political interest.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the us central intelligence agency is proven to have secret detention centres within european territory, to bribe governments, organisations and bodies, to promote corruption and to violate human rights and the presumption of innocence in most cases. the pretext of fighting terrorism is dangerously shifting the balance between governments, parliaments and the judiciary. the european institutions, the european court of human rights, all the so-called guardians of the protection of fundamental rights, benefit from the political persecution of nationalist movements and are only stopped in cases that are in their political interest. i therefore vote against the follow-up to the parliament's resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia, because the motion for a resolution is well founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the us central intelligence agency is proven to have secret detention centres within european territory, to bribe governments, organisations and bodies, to promote corruption and to violate human rights and the presumption of innocence in most cases. the pretext of fighting terrorism is dangerously shifting the balance between governments, parliaments and the judiciary. the european institutions, the european court of human rights, all the so-called guardians of the protection of fundamental rights, benefit from the political persecution of nationalist movements and are only stopped in cases that are in their political interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on space capabilities for european security and defence because the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both inside and outside the union, which has been facing terrorist attacks, hybrid warfare and mass killings affecting all member states. the member states should respond to these issues by adopting a common strategy, while giving a coordinated response at all levels and making use, inter alia, of the development of space capabilities.
in writing. ‒ the the report on space capabilities for european security and defence raises important issues, especially when we consider that even today part of the territory of one member state (cyprus) is militarily occupied by a foreign power (turkey). the fact is that europe must be active in this area so as not to be dependent on actions or programmes of third countries or organizations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ positive overall. the eu must invest in its space programme and become autonomous and not dependent on the us. the potential exists and should be exploited by the eu for the advancement of all its services and in all areas for the better quality of life and safety of europeans.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the space capabilities for european security and defence. the eu must invest in its space programme and become autonomous and not dependent on the us. the potential exists and should be exploited by the eu for the advancement of all its services and in all areas for the better quality of life and safety of europeans.
in writing. ‒ the report pleads for the use of space-based capabilities and services for european security and defence purposes. however, the militarisation of the eu-space programs, initially conceived for eu member states and for the private sector, generates some serious concerns, such as the expenditure provisions that will charge eu’s budget and consequently the need to prioritise space military assets within the context of an economic crisis. it also creates some serious doubts whether civilian systems may be used for other purposes and whether nato’s role will be significant in the matter. hence, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on space capabilities for european security and defence for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 7 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
in writing. the report on 'space capabilities for security and defence' and the resolution on 'space market' concern two complementary aspects of eu policy, military and economic. they call on the eu and its member states to use space more rapidly and intensively for military purposes in support of the eu's imperialist interventions and operations as well as nato and its repression mechanisms, such as frontex, by revealing the main objectives served by the eu's multi-faceted programmes, such as galileo, copernicus, egnos, cesar, etc. at the same time, the political staff of the monopolies sees space as another field that can boost capitalist profitability in various economic sectors (new technologies, defence industry, digital market, telecommunications), in the context of the eu's tough confrontations with its competing imperialist, capitalist associations and in space. the eu has also included the suppression of refugees and migrants in its space policy objectives, with satellite geoscopy and so on. it is becoming clear that there is no aspect of eu action that is not being exploited to boost capitalist profitability, which goes hand in hand with imperialist bloodshed and repression, the shielding of capital's power to ensure the cruel exploitation of the people.
in writing. ‒ the eu must invest in its space programme and become autonomous rather than dependent on the us. the potential exists and should be exploited by the eu for the advancement of all its services and in all areas for the better quality of life and safety of europeans.
in writing. the report on 'space capabilities for security and defence' and the resolution on 'space market' concern two complementary aspects of eu policy, military and economic. they call on the eu and its member states to use space more rapidly and intensively for military purposes in support of the eu's imperialist interventions and operations as well as nato and its repression mechanisms, such as frontex, by revealing the main objectives served by the eu's multi-faceted programmes, such as galileo, copernicus, egnos, cesar, etc. at the same time, the political staff of the monopolies sees space as another field that can boost capitalist profitability in various economic sectors (new technologies, defence industry, digital market, telecommunications), in the context of the eu's tough confrontations with its competing imperialist, capitalist associations and in space. the eu has also included the suppression of refugees and migrants in its space policy objectives, with satellite geoscopy and so on. it is becoming clear that there is no aspect of eu action that is not being exploited to boost capitalist profitability, which goes hand in hand with imperialist bloodshed and repression, the shielding of capital's power to ensure the cruel exploitation of the people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on space strategy and market penetration, which welcomes the progress made on the two space flagship programmes, galileo and copernicus. it also believes that they should be seen as complementary programmes, and further synergies should be encouraged, and calls on the commission to stick to the timetable and ensure the rapid and full exploitation of the space and ground infrastructure and services provided by the two flagship programmes.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the fact is that the european union's activities in the field of space are directly linked to scientific and technical progress, economic and industrial competitiveness, social cohesion and job creation. programmes such as gnss and copernicus contribute to the availability of positioning, timing and high-precision geospatial data. we therefore vote against the motion for a resolution on the penetration of the space market, in order to achieve a clear european space industrial policy, encouraging both public and private demand, always with the aim of making european industry more competitive on the world market.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the fact is that the european union's activities in the field of space are directly linked to scientific and technical progress, economic and industrial competitiveness, social cohesion and job creation. programmes such as gnss and copernicus contribute to the availability of positioning, timing and high-precision geospatial data. i therefore vote against the motion for a resolution on the penetration of the space market, in order to achieve a clear european space industrial policy, encouraging both public and private demand, always with the aim of making european industry more competitive on the world market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on penetration of the space market for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 7 june 2016 and because the motion for a resolution is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the fact is that the european union's activities in the field of space are directly linked to scientific and technical progress, economic and industrial competitiveness, social cohesion and job creation. programmes such as gnss and copernicus contribute to the availability of positioning, timing and high-precision geospatial data. a clear european space industrial policy must be achieved, encouraging both public and private demand, always with the aim of making european industry more competitive on the world market.
the commission madam president, the sharp drop in the price of oil is shaking venezuelan society and economy, as i also said in my speech on 10 may 2016 to the european parliament's plenary session, when i pointed out that the european union should show restraint, neutrality and objective judgment on the political and social situation in venezuela and not interfere in the internal affairs of that country. the european union has unfortunately shown a unilateral and interventionist attitude towards venezuela and its people. the european parliament's resolution on venezuela is also moving in this direction, because it is unilateral and biased, because it is interfering openly in venezuela's internal affairs, because it is not helping to solve the problems in venezuela but is adding fuel to the fire, because it is undermining the conquests of the venezuelan people who have solved the problems of housing millions of people and given land to the landless. i have therefore voted against the european parliament's resolution on venezuela.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we strongly condemn the gross interference in the internal affairs of a third independent state, especially in this case, where the role of the international actor and of certain states is from suspicious to dangerous for international security and stability.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the reports on the situation in venezuela, as i unequivocally condemn the gross interference in the internal affairs of a third independent state, and especially in this particular case, where the role of the international actor and of certain states is from suspicious to dangerous for international security and stability.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the joint resolution of the people's party, social democrats, liberals and conservative reformists, because it openly and openly interferes in the internal political situation of venezuela, while at the same time hiding that the cause of the problems of its people is the capitalist mode of production, the domination of the monopolies. it is an unthinkable audacity to present as the champion of popular rights parties which in all the eu member states are crushing wages and pensions, demolishing labour and social rights, condemning their peoples to unemployment, poverty and destitution, as their venezuelan sister parties have done for decades. this unacceptable resolution is preparing the ground for imperialist intervention by the eu and its allies, the usa and nato, in the country and the wider region. the kke expresses its solidarity with the working class and the popular strata of venezuela, which are facing the consequences of the capitalist crisis. it supports the inalienable right of the venezuelan people to choose and determine the path of development and social organization that corresponds to their interests, fighting against monopolies and their power, for radical changes in power and the economy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we unequivocally condemn the blatant intervention in the internal affairs of a third independent state, and especially in this particular case, where the role of the international actor and of particular states is from suspicious to dangerous for international security and stability.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the joint resolution of the people's party, social democrats, liberals and conservative reformists, because it openly and openly interferes in the internal political situation of venezuela, while at the same time hiding that the cause of the problems of its people is the capitalist mode of production, the domination of the monopolies. it is an unthinkable audacity to present as the champion of popular rights parties which in all the eu member states are crushing wages and pensions, demolishing labour and social rights, condemning their peoples to unemployment, poverty and destitution, as their venezuelan sister parties have done for decades. this unacceptable resolution is preparing the ground for imperialist intervention by the eu and its allies, the usa and nato, in the country and the wider region. the kke expresses its solidarity with the working class and the popular strata of venezuela, which are facing the consequences of the capitalist crisis. it supports the inalienable right of the venezuelan people to choose and determine the path of development and social organization that corresponds to their interests, fighting against monopolies and their power, for radical changes in power and the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this statement by the european commission, as i believe it is necessary to implement immediately and without further delay the decisions to implement clear rules on the prohibition of chemicals proven to cause serious diseases due to endocrine disruption. as the group of the party of european socialists, we call on the commission to follow the court of justice's decision of 16 december on the application of strict criteria for the control of endocrine disruptors based on scientific results and not on socioeconomic considerations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the endocrine disruptors are found almost everywhere in our daily lives. they can be found in plastic bottles, in aluminum packaging, in beauty products, and in fruits and vegetables that have been treated with pesticides. exposure to these chemicals, or mixtures thereof, destabilises the endocrine system and may be responsible for various cancers, infertility symptoms, neurological disorders, thyroid problems, obesity and diabetes. the commission's flagrant unwillingness to comply with its legal obligations and the relevant ruling of the european court of justice to directly set scientific criteria for the recognition of chemicals containing endocrine disruptors is a major scandal and raises legitimate questions about the interests served at the expense of public health and the information of citizens.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the changes brought about by the 16 december 2015 ruling of the court of justice on the issue of endocrine disruptors. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we vote against the motion for a resolution as it calls on the commission to comply with its obligations under article 266 tfeu and to adopt scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties which are scientifically sound and appropriate for regulatory purposes and based on a detailed risk assessment carried out on the basis of the most advanced science, as requested by parliament in its report on the protection of public health.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote in favour of the motion for a resolution as it calls on the commission to comply with its obligations under article 266 tfeu and to adopt scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties which are scientifically sound and appropriate for regulatory purposes and based on a detailed risk assessment carried out on the basis of the most advanced science, as requested by parliament in its report on the protection of public health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on endocrine disruptors: how the situation develops after the judgment of the general court of the european union of 16 december 2015 because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ calls on the commission to comply with its obligations under article 266 tfeu and to adopt scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties, which will be scientifically sound and appropriate for regulatory purposes and based on a detailed risk assessment carried out on the basis of the most advanced science, as requested by parliament in its report on the protection of public health;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the article 106 objection to the authorisation of the genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21, because herbicide-resistant gmos should not be authorised, as this could lead to an increase in the use of such substances.
in writing. ‒ we voted today following an objection under rule 106 to the approval of the genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21. it is clear that this is a matter of direct concern to the health sector and only after careful action can we make any significant changes. i therefore voted in favour of the objection, so that investigations into the suitability of the product in question could be carried out.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the motion for a resolution as it calls on the commission to withdraw its implementing decision. the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in regulation (eu) no 1829/2003.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution as it calls on the commission to withdraw its implementing decision. the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in regulation (eu) no 1829/2003.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision of xxxx authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21 and genetically modified maize with a combination of two or three lines from bt11, mir162, mir604 and ga21, and repealing decisions 2010/426/eu, 2011/893/eu, 2011/892/eu and 2011/894/eu, as it is complete and outdated.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in regulation (eu) no 1829/2003.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the article 106 objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified carnations, because resistant gmos should not be authorised, as this could lead to an increase in the use of such substances.
in writing. ‒ today's vote on the article 106 objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified carnations concerns issues of protecting the health of european citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why i voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the motion for a resolution as it calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision. the draft commission implementing decision does not achieve the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in that directive.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution as it calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision. the draft commission implementing decision does not achieve the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in that directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision, xxxx, concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., series shd-27531-4), because it is complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing decision does not achieve the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers set out in that directive.
the commission mr president, it is particularly important, at a time when many member states of the union have suspended schengen, to discuss the promotion of free movement by simplifying the acceptance of certain documents. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. this is a positive development which will help to promote the free movement of citizens, their establishment in other countries and their access to employment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european framework for the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work. at the same time we must be mindful of the security issues that have been raised. the need for the recognition of documents and the abolition of the apostille is particularly urgent now that we have a large immigration of young people from the countries of the south, and especially from greece, as thousands of scientists have now gone to the countries of the north. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's regional policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis, but that it is not disrupted by the economic crisis.
the commission mr president, the exemption from the obligation to ratify and endorse certain public documents is an important step towards reducing red tape and the hardship of union citizens. public documents which can be searched rapidly between member states and certified in a short time should not be an obstacle to the professional, academic and personal activities of european citizens. methods, methods and techniques exist and are constantly being improved with the development of new technologies. member states must break down any barriers that may be holding them back and improve the quality of life of their citizens by limiting unnecessary and costly hassle in such procedural matters. the scope of these administrative facilities is still limited but it can and should be extended to other documents, but not at the expense of the reliability and security of documents.
mr president, i made it clear last autumn, in the debate on the reform of the court of justice, that in my view there was no reason to double the number of judges, that this was more or less a political decision, and i did not vote for it. it is true that the agenda of the court of justice is growing, but it is not growing to the point where it suddenly becomes 56 judges out of 28. this is a reality and anyone who has studied the burden of the courts, i studied this topic in the czech republic, so it was quite obvious to him that the number of judges could easily increase by only a few specific judges, not by doubling the number. however, since this has already happened, and as i have already mentioned, i did not agree with it, i think it is logical to complete the reform in this area by abolishing the civil service tribunal and thus transferring its agenda to the tribunal. it is more of a follow-up effort to find enough activity for a court that will have twice as many judges in the future and yet the agenda is not that large. it's, in my opinion, conceptually wrong, but at least from the taxpayer's perspective, it saves some money. i am ready to support this move to a specialized institution of the civil service tribunal, but i say that the whole concept of reform unfortunately had only a political background and did not correspond to the common sense.
the commission mr president, we are discussing the transfer to the general court of the european union of jurisdiction to hear at first instance disputes between the union and its officials. it was originally proposed by the court of justice and the general court that the number of judges of the general court be increased to 56 so that each member state could appoint two judges. the increase also required the abolition of the civil service tribunal. however, the present regulation decides to increase the number of judges of the general court from 40 to 47 and to abolish the civil service tribunal, which consisted of 7 judges, who will be transferred to the general court. finally, given that there has been a 65% increase in cases brought before the general court between 2000 and 2010 compared to 1300 cases pending at the end of 2010, it is necessary to increase the number of judges to 56, two per member state, in order to cope with the increased workload of the general court.
the commission madam president, since the european union and third countries operate as a single area of free movement of persons, it is only natural that all kinds of criminals and outlaws, from terrorists to arms and drug traffickers, exploit the structural weaknesses of the schengen treaty to the benefit of their activities. in addition, the problematic cooperation between police authorities in the various countries of europe creates even more gaps and opportunities for all those who have such aims. the exchange of information and data under certain conditions could improve the situation somewhat, but unfortunately there are also many questionable and negative aspects. initially, data exchange alone does not solve the problem, as again there are problems of responsibilities and jurisdiction of the services, the different legal framework of each country and the inability to coordinate and exploit information at pan-european level. but even if we were to proceed to the creation of a single european police force, we might in the long run create more problems than we solve. one of the main problems is that there is no reliable authority to control how the data and information collected is used. who will take on this role? the commission has not yet taken up this role, but it has no democratic legitimacy to do so. recent incidents have shown us that even government authorities are willing to share information they collect with third parties or to use this data for political persecution of ideological opponents. the only sensible option at this point would be to reintroduce border controls by member states, at least until a convincing answer to these problems is found.
the commission madam president, the exchange and processing of data should be carried out with respect for the fundamental right of every individual to the protection of his or her personal data and privacy, as defined by the provisions in force and the case law of the court of justice of the european union. in addition, the principle of proportionality, a balance between security and freedom should be respected, and the data collected and exchanged should be limited to the minimum necessary for the purpose they serve. the purpose of the exchange and processing of data should be strictly the detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of judicial decisions. to achieve this, there should be appropriate cooperation in the mechanisms for the exchange of data between the member states of the union. but the debate so far has multiplied the questions we have had because of the gaps and the vagueness of the initiative, instead of answering them. we await the commission's and the council's further replies.
the commission madam president, the ever-increasing rate of terrorist attacks and the activities of organised crime impose the need for cooperation and exchange of information between all countries. the principle of protecting fundamental rights, such as the protection of personal data and respect for a person's privacy, also applies. it is true that the boundaries between interference by a state authority in the national interest and respect for personal data and human rights are blurred. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not prevented from voting on the budget. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of the euro, and to provide information on the use of the euro. this will be achieved through transnational cooperation and through strict checks at the borders of each country when someone wants to enter it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the turkish regime is steadily moving towards totalitarianism, as it has decided to lift the immunity of 138 democratically elected representatives of the people, because they are the voice of the 25 million kurds living in turkey. as if that were not enough, the turkish authorities have decided to hold an islamic service at hagia sophia, thus insulting the faith of millions of christians around the world. mr hahn, i have already sent a letter to mrs mogherini asking her to intervene here and now to stop this provocation, this desecration of the orthodox church of hagia sophia, where the koran is now read every day. the european union must finally stop turning a blind eye to turkey's authoritarian decline and its challenges to christianity. mr hahn, it is time for the european union to stop bowing to the sultan.
the commission mr president, recently the kurdish member of the turkish national assembly, encu ferhat, boldly declared that turkey is nothing but stolen land of greek armenians and kurds. as he said, "my marty's history!" continuing to cite examples of the atrocities of the turks, he said: we kurds live in kurdistan and when we lived in this land, the turks were in mongolia busy with their horses, and this land belongs to us and we live here. modern turkey is less than 100 years old, while kurdistan is over 5000 years old, and there are dozens of ancient greek texts that mention the name of the kurds and kurdistan. i read you some of the threats of the turkish mps, members of parliament: "put a bullet in his head!" "shoot him!" "you have signed your own death sentence!" "your head will fall off, you kurdish rascal!" "put him in prison for ten years!" "we will destroy your cities!" i would like to ask mr schulz, of course, who he would impose the sanctions he recently imposed on me? the brave kurdish mp or the turkish counterparts? in the parliamentary democracy which the president institutionally protects, which is more reprehensible, the attitude of the kurd who invoked the historical truth or the turks who insulted him, threatened his life and committed crimes against civilians? lately, the religious monument of st. sophia has also been disrespected. i dedicate this to the beloved president for the turkish proteges, who as a former bookseller should have known history well enough to make fair decisions.
s & d) and the mr president, first of all i would like to express my condolences to the victims of the recent terrorist attacks in turkey. friends and colleagues, mr. erdogan is leading turkey into a political middle age. the result of his choices, his political choices, is that the turkish people pay for it every day. he denies the immunity of hdp mps on the charge of supporting terrorism. we cannot remain mere spectators in the persecution of members of parliament just because they are kurds. we cannot remain indifferent to the slaughter of civilians and the destruction of entire cities like nusaibin. at the same time, he is threatening german mps of turkish origin who voted to recognize the armenian genocide. finally, he insults the hagia sophia, a world heritage site, a symbol of christianity, using it for cheap propaganda. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we must therefore all together today send a strong message that mr erdogan is the one who is closing the door to the european perspective for his country, turkey.
the commission mr president, just a few days ago the turkish parliament approved the waiver of the immunity of 138 members of parliament, including 103 members of the hdp, the pro-kurdish party, which is the third political force in the country. the crime of these members was that they demanded that the operations of the turkish armed forces in south-eastern turkey against the kurds be stopped and that peace talks be resumed. however, president erdogan has denounced and prosecuted them under the anti-terrorism law, with the aim of imprisoning them and reducing their political power. this action by the turkish dictator is certainly undemocratic and is going to spark new violence in the already tense political situation in the country. the question that arises is why some of you are surprised and seem indignant at this behaviour of president erdogan. aren't you the ones who have been tolerating him blackmailing you to threaten you? you don't even beg him now to work with you to solve the so-called immigration problem? are you not the ones who tolerated the greek government of samaras doing exactly the same thing that president erdogan did, namely, putting the leader and the mps of the third political party, golden dawn, in prison? are you not the ones who even now tolerate him playing you and europe at the same time? i would like to ask you, if mr erdogan were to ask you that question, what would you say? and finally, to put it seriously, are you determined, do you have the dignity to threaten turkey with the suspension of its accession negotiations? do you have the ability to threaten turkey that you will remove the pkk from the terrorist organizations?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the implementation of the convention. mr erdogan and his subordinates systematically cultivate and market hatred in order to consolidate the precept of power. he's organizing hate parties on the byzantine walls of constantinople to celebrate its fall some six centuries ago and the massacres and plunder that followed. it refuses to condemn the ottoman hatred of armenians and other christian populations and to recognize the genocides committed against them a century ago. it is still waging an undeclared war against the kurdish minority in the south-eastern provinces and is lifting the immunity of hdp mps, with the aim of silencing the opposition in general. the european union must speak to mr erdogan in the only language he will understand, the language of political and economic sanctions.
the commission mr president, i too would like to express my condolences and deep concern at the recent terrorist attacks in the centre of istanbul. i would also like to express my deep concern and displeasure that the turkish government, for the first time in 82 years, since 1934, is allowing the reading of the koran during ramadan inside hagia sophia, a unesco world heritage site. we want a democratic turkey. we want a stabilizing factor in the wider region. we want a turkey that offers security and prosperity to its people. but turkey is a country that is moving away from democracy and towards an authoritarian regime with islamic elements. it is a country which is unfortunately moving away from the european union on the responsibility of its leadership.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has always been a party to the refugee agreement, and it is not the turkish authorities who are responsible for the tragic events in turkey. the policy of patting erdoğan and the turkish political elite on the back has allowed him to create an undemocratic web of persecution of anyone who disagrees: political opponents, academics, journalists and others. the criminalisation of the kurdish question by referring kurdish mps to trial is the natural progression. you call this country safe and you negotiate deals with its leadership. we are certainly obliged to oppose the persecution of kurdish mps. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is part of erdogan's overall plan and i fear that we will soon be faced with worse developments, which will affect the wider region. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
the commission mr president, the trade defence instruments applied by the european union (anti-dumping, countervailing and safeguard measures) are supposed to protect producers against imports which may be the subject of unfair trade practices. trade defence instruments have been established by the world trade organisation on the basis of international law as a means of redressing trade distortions. however, what is happening in practice is far from these objectives. the world trade organization, instead of promoting a fair international trading system, does nothing to stop the inequalities in international trade. it is therefore necessary that the european union's trade defence instruments are activated and actually protect the interests of producers against unfair commercial practices and not operate in accordance with the interests and speculation of multinational companies, which are achieved through unequal trade relations. will you finally take action at european union level against china which is constantly dumping? will you finally take action at council level to protect the european steel industry or will you see the factories shut down and the workers and employees unemployed?
the commission madam president, the japan fisheries agency has notified the international whaling commission of a 12-year plan under which 333 whales will be allowed to be killed in 2015-2016 and a total of 4,000 whales over the 12-year period. in fact, despite the 2014 international court of justice ruling banning japan's annual whaling, the country continues to kill whales. already since 1986 japan has killed over 10,000 whales, using so-called scientific studies as a pretext. since whaling violates the rules of international law, undermines the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems and is not even required for scientific research, it is necessary for the european union to condemn japan's attitude towards the killing of whales. japan should comply with the decisions of the international court of justice and stop the slaughter of whales for profit.
the commission madam president, while the european union is going through a period of profound existential crisis, while british citizens are soon expected to vote on brexit, while in eight other countries citizens have expressed their desire for similar referendums, while the european construction is being demolished, some are calling for the so-called escape forward. it is the last resort in their attempt to save europe from the memoranda and austerity. they do not speak of a more democratic europe and, although the main problem is the lack of democracy in the european union, what they are interested in is the supposed efficiency and above all the independence of the brussels bureaucracy. what they're interested in is bypassing the popular verdict. in greece, the troika imposed automatic measures to be triggered in the event of a deviation from budgetary targets, bypassing the greek parliament. this is what some people dream of all over europe. but it won't pass, because the people will react.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. it will put citizens, small and mediumsized businesses, on the sidelines and bind states with decisions which do not reflect the free will of their citizens. the commission's view is that economic diplomacy is extremely bad for the people. the disastrous decisions to take measures against russia have in turn had a serious impact on many businesses, without the european union having so far adequately and fairly compensated those affected. at the same time, while there are leaks of documents proving the burdensome environmental provisions being worked out by ttip, the commission is continuing 'business as usual'. these events demonstrate the direction that the eurocrats are trying to give to economic diplomacy, which is nothing other than the creation of an economic nato, an economic re-deployment within the framework of the west, a submission to transatlantic geographical interests, which completely ignores popular opinion and demonstrates that they are ignorant of the multipolar structure of the world economy.
the commission madam president, first there was the railway package, which is strengthening the privatisation process of this vital sector in european transport, and now some are afraid of competition from chinese and other non-european companies and are proposing measures to keep these players out of the market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not subject to the same rules as the railways in the community. the european union is trying to apply a neo-mercantilist policy to the railways. the european community is not a mere economic entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. in greece, which has become a troika experimental animal, taiped, at the behest of the lenders, is privatising trainose and essti. this is what they do, and this is what the colonialists did in africa a hundred years ago. they are trying to impose the same on greece. but that's not gonna happen. the greek people will react.
the commission the kke votes against the resolution because it is promoting further privatization of the railways at the expense of the workers and passengers themselves. we are also concerned about the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are referring to syriza, whose government in greece, in the dirtiest role of the useful leftist system, on the one hand crushes the people and on the other hand hand handes over all public property for 99 years to the lenders, privatizing everything and the railways. it is therefore a huge challenge for syriza meps to sign an amendment here denouncing the privatisation of the railways and then to return to the classroom and not sign another amendment calling on governments to reject privatisation, that is, their own government. that's syriza and his hoax! this is the gue and the party of the european left, the so-called left-wing crutch of bourgeois political barbarism, the political roof of the parties of the memoranda! we leave them to the people's judgment.
the commission madam president, i do not speak cambodian but i know how hypocritical i think those who are supposedly concerned and interested in democracy and human rights in cambodia are. the report, like so many reports on countries nearby or thousands of kilometres away, calls us to condemn the lack of democracy, oppression, political persecution, repression and the violation of human rights. hypocrisy, if not populism! the imprisonment of opposition leaders and mps has not only taken place in cambodia but also in greece. political persecution of opposition parties is also taking place in the europe of the rule of law against the nationalist parties of the national front, the lega nord, jobbik and the npd. you don't want to hear different opinions. and before anyone rushes to call me racist or inhuman, let me respond, perhaps better, by denouncing the behaviour of members of the committee dealing with human rights violations, who, when i asked them to discuss a case of human rights violation, did not bother to respond, even in the negative. even the president of the commission himself! only one responded, stating that for the next five months he did not have 20 minutes. if that is not undemocratic behavior, hypocrisy, ridicule and racism, then i challenge anyone to give me a wiser definition.
the commission mr president, tajikistan is a very poor country, but there is a systematic suppression of the democratic rights of its citizens. the media, civil society organizations are being targeted by the authorities. there is also oppression of the christian populations in that country. the european union must put pressure on tajikistan to restore democracy, the rule of law, opposition rights, multiparty democracy and freedom of expression. the european union must closely monitor the practical application of the right to associate and the right to form political parties. the repression of human rights in that country must finally come to an end and i think that the european union has the means, the means and the ability to put pressure on tajikistan.
the commission mr president, independent political parties, trade unions and human rights organizations are still banned in vietnam, and in april 2016 a new law was passed that restricts freedom of expression and strengthens censorship. at the same time, there was a violent crackdown on demonstrations in may. the commission has also received information from the vietnamese authorities indicating that the eu has been actively supporting the implementation of the un guidelines on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country. however, this agreement does not protect the rights of citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis. in response to these violations in vietnam, the european union should take immediate action to stop all forms of repression against persons exercising the rights of freedom of expression and to ensure that the vietnamese government complies with the recommendations of the un and the human rights committee by repealing all legislation that is contrary to the freedoms of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the amendment for a recommendation at second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the presentation of certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012, because it is legislation that will greatly benefit the daily lives of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the rejection of the recommendation to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the submission of certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012 was an attempt to reverse and annul the unanimous position of the house until now. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's right to vote is respected.
in writing. ‒ the member states must break down any barriers that may be holding them back and improve the quality of life of their citizens by reducing unnecessary and costly hassle in such procedural matters. the simplification of procedures must not, however, be at the expense of the reliability and security of documents.
in writing. ‒ member states must break down any barriers that may be holding them back and improve the quality of life of their citizens by reducing unnecessary and costly hassle in such procedural matters. however, simplification of procedures must not be at the expense of the reliability and security of documents and i therefore vote against the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the presentation of certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012.
in writing. ‒ the report is about promoting the free movement of public documents. i voted in favour of the report but against the amendment tabled by the far-right political group (enf).
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the submission of certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 9 june 2016 and because this recommendation for second reading is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to move freely across borders. millions of europeans who study, work or reside in a member state other than their own face administrative complications when submitting public documents to the host authorities. the proposed regulation covers mainly documents frequently requested by citizens and relating to their personal situation (birth, marriage, death, etc.). it abolishes the requirement of certification and notation, while at the same time providing for measures to facilitate the acceptance of certified photocopies and official translations. multilingual standard forms are also being introduced for the majority of the relevant documents. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think, however, that in the near future: a. to extend its scope to include diplomas, training certificates, invalidity certificates and certain important business documents, as originally envisaged; and b. to provide for the possibility of using the multilingual standard forms independently, which will now, after the adoption of the regulation, be attached to the relevant national documents, which will lead to unnecessary and unjustified complications.
in writing. ‒ the member states must break down any barriers that may be holding them back and improve the quality of life of their citizens by reducing unnecessary and costly hassle in such procedural matters. the simplification of procedures must not, however, be at the expense of the reliability and security of documents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report referred to in this regulation, which is the fourth in a series on the reform of the court of justice. the first regulation introduced a number of changes in the composition and procedure of the court of justice and the general court, while the second regulation provided for the appointment of alternate judges to the civil service tribunal.
in writing. ‒ the we have voted today on the report on the transfer to the general court of the european union of jurisdiction to hear at first instance disputes between the union and its officials. this report deals with a rather technical matter, but one which has a great impact on many of the union's officials and on the way in which its judicial mechanism operates. i believe that the decision to abolish the special court for officials of the union and transfer jurisdiction to the general court is paramount, since substantial steps should have been taken beforehand to further guarantee the independence of the union's courts and their officials, and i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ positive overall. there had already been some dispute about the increase in the number of judges at the general court, which was eventually larger than what had been agreed. the reason is that there will be representation from each member state by two judges and the merger of the civil service tribunal into the general court. the special reports say that better functioning and adjudication of cases and better control will be achieved.
in writing. ‒ the i vote against the report on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council transferring to the general court of the european union the power to hear and determine at first instance disputes between the union and its officials, since there had already been some doubts about the increase in the number of judges at the general court, which was eventually more than what had been agreed. the reason is that there will be representation from each member state, with two judges, and the merger of the civil service tribunal into the general court. the special reports say that there will be better functioning and adjudication of cases and better control.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the transfer of jurisdiction to hear and determine cases at first instance to the general court is intended to implement technical and administrative improvements in the organisation of the general court. it is the fourth time that a similar report has been tabled in the european parliament. the report attempts to improve the court's internal organisation, but this time an amendment disagrees with me. i do not agree with the amendment which seeks to increase the number of judges, because it will at the same time reduce the number of staff. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council conferring jurisdiction at first instance on the general court of the european union in disputes between the union and its officials, for the reasons which i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 9 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the there had already been some dispute about the increase in the number of judges at the general court, which was eventually larger than what had been agreed. the report mentions representation by two judges from each member state and the merger of the civil service tribunal with the general court. the special reports say that better functioning and adjudication of cases and better control will be achieved.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union, as it is an important step towards ensuring better management and greater transparency in the functioning of the eu institutions and legal certainty for european citizens. citizens are often not fully aware of their rights when dealing with the eu institutions. the creation of a set of rules on administrative procedures will help to tackle this issue and bring the eu closer to citizens.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the motion for a resolution on the regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. it is clear that this effort is aimed at improving the functioning of the union's administrative machinery. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal.
in writing. ‒ an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union is essential for the public interest and therefore particular importance should be given to the drafting of corresponding regulations.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union, as i believe that particular importance should be given to the drafting of the corresponding regulations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union because it is well-founded.
in writing. ‒ an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union is essential for the public interest, and therefore particular importance should be given to the drafting of corresponding regulations.
in writing. ‒ the the vote on the competitiveness of the european railway supply industry is directly related to the attitude that europe wants to take towards one of its most important industrial sectors. european railways have historically contributed to the development of the continent and their contribution to the modern economy is significant. the fact that rail travel is less harmful to the environment than other modes of transport should also be taken into account, as it involves lower average energy consumption per passenger per kilometre and therefore less greenhouse gas emissions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the quality of the railways. although this resolution addresses existing problems facing the industry, its wording does not sufficiently emphasise the rights of workers and in this respect may lead to further aggravation of these problems. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the the european railway materials sector is of great importance for industrial growth, employment and innovation, contributing to the objectives of re-industrialisation and investment in research and development. smes in the railway equipment sector must have access to finance and be supported by european funds. finally, improving the european market environment for suppliers and encouraging demand for rail products must be a priority for us.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the competitiveness of the european railway supply industry. the european railway material sector is of great importance for industrial growth, employment and innovation, contributes to the objective of re-industrialisation and investment in research and development. smes in the railway equipment sector must have access to finance and be supported by european funds. finally, improving the european market environment for suppliers and stimulating demand for rail products should be a priority.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the competitiveness of the european railway equipment industry for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 9 june 2016 and because the motion for a resolution is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the european railway materials sector is of great importance for industrial growth, employment and innovation, contributing to the objectives of re-industrialisation and investment in research and development. smes in the railway equipment sector must have access to finance and be supported by european funds. finally, improving the european market environment for suppliers and encouraging demand for rail products must be a priority for us.
the commission mr president, mr avramopoulos, the initiative of the committee on civil liberties of this parliament to put this question highlights the problems of lack of transparency and lack of information in the process of negotiating international treaties on behalf of the commission and the union. article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union is clear and free from misinterpretation, since it expressly states that the european parliament is to be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the negotiation process. the commission has unfortunately failed to fulfil this obligation, culminating in the negotiation of the famous ttip. in the case of ttip, the commission followed the classic lines of secret diplomacy and it was only after public opinion had been outraged and the european parliament had reacted that information about ttip was started, but with a dropper. it took the intervention of the european ombudsman, who opened an inquiry for the commission, to get ms malmström to commit to transparency and information on ttip. finally, following the leak of confidential documents from the eu-us ttip negotiations, the commission was forced to change course and ms malmström made public statements. but in relation to ttip there are and still are unacceptable and degrading procedures for meps, as they are obliged to read ttip negotiating documents in an isolated space without a mobile phone, so as not to take pictures of the documents, without even paper, without a pencil, so as not to take notes. in fact, i wanted to inform you, mr. avramopoulos, that the same is not true of the united states senators, who have full and unconditional access. at the same time, the assistants of the united states senators and 700 us experts have access to the ttip documents. the european council in madrid, in the context of the european council in madrid, has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we therefore call for full transparency on ttip, because as the leaked documents have shown, this agreement is disrupting european agriculture, poses risks to public health by flooding the european union with mutants and supports the actions of multinationals against states and small and mediumsized enterprises. the secret diplomacy of the metternich type, since the time of the holy alliance, is not acceptable to the citizens, it is not acceptable to the peoples. so transparency everywhere and in everything!
the commission madam president, the democratic republic of the congo is the largest country in central africa and one of the richest in mineral resources. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. last december, we voted in favour of a motion condemning the illegal mining activities taking place in virunga national park, a park with the greatest biodiversity in africa and a unesco world heritage site. the violence in the north kivu region began around the same time as the first seismic surveys were conducted, at the end of 2014. almost two years later we are already counting more than six hundred dead. horrible massacres in the beni region in may, with victims pregnant women, young children and the elderly. the european union must not only condemn these inhuman acts but also take strong measures to stop any involvement of european multinationals in the illegal activities taking place in eastern congo. in particular, it should examine allegations of cooperation between multinational companies and armed groups aimed at terrorising and persecuting local populations.
the commission madam president, one of the most serious problems plaguing european societies is the radicalisation of young people, that is, their tendency to violently overturn the existing facts in order to solve problems. but the approach to this problem is wrong. instead of educating young people, teaching them the history, religion, culture, principles and values of their countries, we tolerate the economic impoverishment and destruction of the middle class, which takes us back sixty years, when education was the privilege of the rich only. the harsh austerity measures imposed in many countries, especially in greece, are forcing many children to drop out of school and, amidst a whirlwind of unemployment, to try to find any kind of job in order to survive. but in this way young people are isolated, marginalized, unhappy and hateful to society, which has deprived them of all hope for the future. the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. recent surveys in europe have shown a dramatic increase in the crime rate of adolescents and young people. we should be concerned about why this is happening; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which are not in the report. young people, when they have no hope, no jobs, no prospects, they model criminals and feel heroic when they cause hatred and panic. we should be concerned about the way in which this phenomenon is developing, where young people are being radicalised. one way is the prisons, the detention centers, where, to a large extent, only imprisonment is not done and another way is the internet, where unfortunately the streets are uncontrolled, uncontrolled so far the controls and the ways in which these people evolve en masse, armed with hate and turn against society. the answer to these people who want to cause the death of their fellow men, to these people who are consumed by hatred and anger, is more humanism, more solidarity, finally taking responsibility from all of us, leading to a better europe. i would like to share with you the experience of a rhetoric that needs to change in this room: there are no innocent victims. all victims of terrorism are innocent. there are no guilty victims, and this rhetoric of separation you perceive is arming hands and awakening false sick consciences that feed the hand of the terrorist. the answer to hatred and fear is love and more europe.
the commission madam president, the causes of radicalisation have political and social implications. in the political field, the radicalisation of muslim populations is being reinforced by western interventions in the arab world. it's backed by turkey, saudi arabia and qatar, who are funding the jihadists. in the social field, poverty and social exclusion are fertilisers for jihadists and, while the commission proposes measures to combat islamic radicalisation, it is also proposing the abolition of visas for kosovo, a region which has been virtually eroded by turkey and saudi arabia, a region where violent islamic radicalisation has led, according to the local police themselves, to the identification of 314 kosovo jihadists, including two suicide bombers and 44 women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, and it is not surprising that the commission has been able to take action against it. you guys have to take this seriously.
the commission madam president, before we try to solve the problem of terrorism and extremism in europe, let us look at our own problems: silencing meps by banning events, checks on european nationalist parties with the aim of dissolving them, breaking the rules and expelling meps from the plenary for not voting, mocking the statements and behaviour of specific meps. if this isn't political extremism and terrorism, then what is it? under the guise of democracy and as the bearer of your common alliance you are trying to exterminate nationalist movements. unfortunately, deeply entrenched attachments to money-loving policies, priorities in systems at the expense of fundamental human rights and the clinging of political groups to power for years have led to the radicalization of the current politics being carried out in this parliament. but this has to stop. i call on colleagues who put their country above economic interests, who resist the corruption of nations, who respect history and believe in god, to stand up against this political terrorism.
the commission madam president, the dutch presidency reached an interim agreement on 15 march 2016 aimed at establishing a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and anchovy fisheries, which are important fisheries in the baltic sea. however, according to opinions of the international council for the exploration of the sea, the current rates of exploitation of certain stocks are not consistent with achieving maximum sustainable development. it is therefore necessary for the european union to take immediate action to ensure that the stocks of these three species in the baltic are fished in accordance with the principle of maximum sustainable yield. at the same time, however, commissioner, the european union should also look to the south and take measures to help the greek fishermen, who have been impoverished by the troika and the memoranda. i would like to take this opportunity to express my deep concern at the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
the commission madam president, the united states of america is consciously choosing to block european business activities in iran. the reason is obvious and of course has nothing to do with alleged concerns about iran's nuclear programme. the main concern is the promotion of american commercial interests in that country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not affected by the crisis. but because of the use of some us-made subsystems, the sale of the aircraft requires approval from the us government, which, five months later, has not yet been granted. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. with these displays of allied solidarity and trade, as the americans understand it, they make sure to make it clear every time who has the upper hand in this alliance. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, most european companies are not willing to do business with iran, despite last year's agreement on tehran's nuclear programme. this is because they fear that they will be fined by the united states for violating the us sanctions on iran, which remain in place. the european union must find a solution to this major issue, which is restricting the development of bilateral trade relations between iran and member states of the union. this country of 80 million people is in a construction orgasm. the immediate plans are to build seven airports in the next few years, and eight cities are undergoing rapid expansion. this opens the way and can be a breath of fresh air for greek manufacturers, who have been hit by the troika's policies, and for greek supply companies in the field of advanced technologies, pharmaceuticals, parapharmaceutical products and medical devices. we are waiting for the commission to act, mrs bienkowska.
the commission the european union's foreign policy is one of the greatest mistakes of the european union, madam president, and it is its complete and inexplicable entanglement with that of the united states. the european union has a long history of being a party to the peace process, and it is not just the united states that is responsible for this. the problems facing european companies operating in iran, as a result of the sanctions still in force in the united states, are a typical example of this situation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the united states does not become a party to the gatt negotiations. this is an unacceptable situation and the european union must urgently get rid of this informal guardianship so that european investors can be active on the iranian market and in the energy sector.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, we are today giving our approval to the establishment of enhanced cooperation in the fields of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. the new rules between the 18 member states that have agreed to participate in the enhanced cooperation scheme are expected to facilitate the daily lives of couples of nationals of different member states by providing a legal framework applicable to their assets and by introducing mutual recognition of judgments given in different member states. it is truly regrettable that the commission's original proposal in 2011 did not proceed due to a lack of unanimity in the council, with the result that we have been delayed for five years in establishing the necessary procedures. it is also regrettable that the european parliament is merely giving its opinion on family law issues, such as the one we are discussing today, which has a direct impact on thousands of couples throughout the european union. legislative initiatives on such issues should fall within the scope of co-decision, so that the european parliament, as the direct representative of european citizens, can have a say as an equal partner in the legislative process and decisively influence developments.
madam chairman, i am very supportive of this material. like my colleagues who spoke from my group before me, i regret a little that this material has been approved some five or six years after it was first discussed in the council. unfortunately, i remember that i represented the czech republic in the council of ministers of justice and even then it was clear that it would be a long way before the material was finally accepted. i hope that tomorrow common sense will prevail and we will accept this material, although unfortunately it concerns only 18 countries, not the whole of the european union, and therefore its effectiveness will logically be limited to a part of our community. it should be noted that this material does not in any way restrict the sovereignty of the member states. it does not affect their family law, nor does it interfere with whether or not a country recognizes a registered partnership. and that's worth saying here, because unfortunately some of the speakers have shifted the meaning of what we're discussing today. it is a set of conflict-of-law rules, international private law and international procedural law. the adoption of this material will make it clear which particular courts will decide on the case of an international couple dealing with property disputes. so we're dealing with jurisdiction, and then we're going to have one governing law. and as a practitioner, i'm very clear that this will help a lot in practice, because i had a whole range of clients, people who were from an international union, and it was kind of a big problem that their assets were being dealt with by different legal regimes. and this is what we're removing here today. so it's a thing that objectively helps citizens. i do not understand why anyone can oppose an amendment which objectively benefits our citizens, it is not a regulation from brussels which restricts our citizens. so i am very pleased, thank you, rapporteur, to support this report and i hope that it will be adopted tomorrow, although, as i said, i would like it to apply to the whole of the european union.
the commission madam president, the management and liquidation of the assets of international couples, due to the separation of the couple or the death of one of the spouses, falls initially under the exclusive national jurisdiction. the council proposes to change this situation. it wants to create a single regime so that the issue of the assets of international couples is subject to international law. but the regulation under vote thus overrides national laws; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. the public policy clause does address the problem of non-recognition of certain forms of cohabitation in certain countries, but i do not think it solves the new problems created by the new regulation, since it violates the principle of subsidiarity and does not respect the cultural traditions of the member states of the union. i therefore believe that the regulation creates more problems than it solves.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, among the main objectives of the union's strategic framework 'education and training 2020' is to improve the quality of the education system of the union's member states and to promote equality at all levels of education and training. the union's position does not, of course, seem to support this strategy. the austerity policies imposed by the troika on certain member states of the union have led these countries to cut back on education spending. in greece, according to the 2017 state budget, spending on education will amount to eur 4,2 billion, while since 2009 it has decreased by 35,6%. at the same time, greek prime minister alexis tsipras dared to speak about allegedly fair growth and decent-paying jobs, at a time when in greece in the first quarter of 2016 the unemployment rate reached 24.9%, the highest in europe. if the union is to achieve the objectives of its strategy, it must abandon austerity policies and increase investment in education, innovation and development.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union's strategy in the field of education is essentially cooperation in the restructuring, degradation and fragmentation of education in europe. it's a collaboration to commercialize knowledge and privatize the education system. it's a mechanism for reproducing the distorted model of unpaid, precarious work without rights. neoliberal thinking has distorted the very concept of education. instead of promoting integrated knowledge, it creates sterilized pieces of knowledge ready to be assembled according to the demands of the market and the prevailing economic interests. the situation is made worse by austerity policies. in particular, in countries like greece, which are in an adjustment programme, education has been hit hard. underfunding and cuts in public spending on education are devaluing education systems and, combined with divestment, are leading to high rates of long-term unemployment of up to 40% among young people, resulting in deregulation of labour relations and exacerbating the phenomenon of brain drain. if we want the high-quality education our young people deserve, the strategy of european cooperation in the field of education must be radically changed. the future of europe's young people cannot be half-education, unemployment, part-time and precarious work and migration. education is a social good, and we must safeguard it by strengthening its public, free and social character at all levels.
the commission madam president, five years have already passed since the memorandum was implemented in greece. five stone years of memories, that tore the country apart. five years of social armageddon, which filled greece with armies of unemployed and poor. the memorandum ultimately increases the public debt as a percentage of gdp. from 123% of gdp in 2010 it will reach 200% by the end of the third memorandum in 2018, according to the imf itself. at the same time, the troika cut wages and pensions, imposed a tax-deferred bailout on the pockets and assets of the greek people and mortgaged public property for 99 years, launching a sell-off instead of a flashlight. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the greek people are not going to tolerate the troika and the creditors any longer and will soon throw them out of our country, so that we can take back greece. the race continues.
the commission mr. president, in 1968, before there was a small step for man and a big step for mankind, researchers were warning the american petroleum institute that carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels could lead to global environmental changes. 48 years later, and while science and technology have made leaps, appropriate technologies for the optimal use of renewable energy sources are still not in place. we wondered why? the deliberate concealment of scientific findings, the concealment of information and the deliberate misleading of public opinion have imposed the short-sighted policy of temporary profit-making on large corporations at the expense of corresponding sustainable options. oil giants and corporations spend $115 million a year blocking climate policies. at the same time, they are pushing for gas to emerge as the key technology with which europe will reduce carbon emissions economically, and the european union is addressing the situation by setting low targets and pursuing moderate policies. we are committing crimes not only against the environment but also against our children. the european union must not allow itself to be the political pawn of the centres of economic power and obscene profiteering. first, there is an apology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
the commission mr president, increasing energy efficiency and renewable energy is a social and ecological priority. however, the achievement of the objectives in these areas must not conflict with the basic needs of the citizens. in greece, following the memoranda of understanding and austerity measures, 36% of the population suffer from energy poverty. unfortunately, though, despite the fact that greek gdp per capita has fallen below 60% of the european average, the country has not been relieved of its obligations under the emissions trading system. in addition, both reports recognise the need to support green energy solutions. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is brought under control. but greece has been excluded from the fund to support the modernisation of energy systems and the improvement of energy efficiency. i have therefore tabled amendments to regulation 2003/87/ec and i call on my colleagues to support them.
gue/ngl), in writing. renewable energy is one answer to climate change. at the same time, their development will reduce the european economy's dependence on energy sources from third countries, thus creating jobs in the european market struggling to recover from the economic crisis. the next few years will be particularly crucial for achieving the binding target of 20% of final energy consumption by 2020 as set out in directive 2009/28/ec, and the corresponding 27% by 2030. individual countries are far from achieving their individually defined target, and there are large differences between sectors of activity. the objective of using renewable energy sources in the electricity sector appears to be being met, but delays in the heating and cooling and transport sectors make it doubtful that the 2020 targets will be reached. in order to meet the challenges of the future, with respect for the environment and a people-centred approach, coordinated policies and increased support systems are needed to make certain renewable energy technologies competitive. efforts to further develop and use renewable energy sources and comprehensive planning to address energy poverty are essential to meet international commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the today's vote on the appointment of members of the committee of inquiry into alleged breaches and maladministration in the application of union law relating to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance concerns a particularly important area. the fight against these issues will help to correct the dysfunctions of europe and to deliver the justice that european citizens demand. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - we don't think the committee of inquiry can be effective with these members.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that the committee of inquiry can be effective with the members in question and i am voting against their appointment.
in writing. – i strongly support the initiative of parliament to appoint a committee of inquiry to examine contraventions and maladministration on issues related to tax fraud and money laundering. the panama papers and other related leaks that we have experienced in the near past dictate that we act promptly and protect the fiscal capacity of the eu as well as the citizens who find themselves entrapped by the constant tax base erosion.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of appointing members of the committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and instances of maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for union interest committees should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this recommendation, which i voted in favour of, concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. we now await notification of the protocol to the commission, the council, the national governments of the states concerned and the republic of lebanon.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of that state in union programmes. the attempt to bring the two sides closer together and to make mutual efforts to link them is positive. however, the exclusive focus on economic issues is not in the interests of the citizens and that is why i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed to the support of third countries through preferential trade agreements, when the peoples of many eu member states (especially those of southern europe) live in economic misery, bordering on poverty.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the support of third countries through preferential trade agreements, when the peoples of many eu member states (especially those of southern europe) live in economic misery, bordering on poverty. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report of the colleague as i see that cooperation between the regions is of the utmost importance for the well-being of the people and it will only help in the procedure of modernisation and reform of the state.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes, because it is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs approving the conclusion of a protocol on euro-mediterranean cooperation with lebanon. the members of the committee responsible took note of the draft council decision and supported this initiative by a large majority.
s&d), in writing. ‒ this recommendation, which i voted in favour of, concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic. we are waiting for it to be communicated to the relevant institutions and governments.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the vote on the recommendation on the draft council decision concerns the conclusion of a protocol of association between the european union and the republic of lebanon to take account of the accession of states to the european union following the 2004 enlargement. this debate is part of the wider cooperation of the eu with the lebanese state and, as it is mainly aimed at economic issues, i do not think it has the interests of the citizens at the forefront. that is why i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed to the support of third countries through preferential trade agreements, when the people of many eu member states (especially those in southern europe) are living in economic misery, reaching the poverty line.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the support of third countries through preferential trade agreements, when the peoples of many eu member states (especially those of southern europe) live in economic misery, bordering on poverty. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report of the colleague as i see that cooperation between the regions is of the utmost importance for the well-being of the people and it will only help in the procedure of modernisation and reform of the state.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic, because it is not complete and overdue.
in writing. ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states and without prejudice to their national and economic interests.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported this initiative, the content of which has been approved by the committee responsible and concerns euro-mediterranean cooperation between lebanon and the member states which joined the eu with the 2004 enlargement.
s&d), in writing. ‒ this recommendation, which i voted in favour of, concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. we are waiting for it to be communicated to the relevant institutions and governments.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation concerning the conclusion of a protocol of association between the european community and the republic of lebanon, to take account of the accession to the european union of the republic of bulgaria and romania. this debate is part of the wider cooperation of the eu with the lebanese state and, as it is mainly aimed at economic issues, i do not think that the interests of the citizens are at the forefront. that is why i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed to the support of third countries through preferential trade agreements, when the people of many eu member states (especially those in southern europe) are living in economic misery, reaching the poverty line.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the support of third countries through preferential trade agreements, when the peoples of many eu member states (especially those of southern europe) live in economic misery, bordering on poverty. i therefore vote against.
in writing. – i have voted for the report of the colleague as i see that cooperation between the regions is of the utmost importance for the well-being of the people and it will only help in the procedure of modernisation and reform of the state.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, because it is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for the conclusion of a protocol on relations between lebanon, bulgaria and romania in the context of euro-mediterranean cooperation. the text tabled has the support of most political forces.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec. this agreement concerns the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts and aims to improve cooperation and compliance in the field of international taxation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec. i believe that any effort to strengthen and improve the procedures for exchanging information on economic data helps to prevent illegal or backdoor activities and therefore protects the interests of european citizens. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this agreement as it is an important step in the ongoing efforts to crack down on tax fraud and tax evasion. the principality of monaco is a well-known tax haven and therefore the exchange of tax information is in the interest of international tax cooperation and compliance with the relevant provisions.
in writing. – in the line of previous similar agreements we welcome the regime established between eu and the principality of monaco regarding the automatic exchange of information on issues related to taxation, money flows and bank savings reporting.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec, as it is sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this agreement is an important step in the ongoing efforts to crack down on tax fraud and tax evasion. the principality of monaco is a well-known tax haven and therefore the exchange of tax information is in the interest of international tax cooperation and compliance with the relevant provisions.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr schwab on the exchange of information on financial accounts, which is expected to be adopted by the council in the next few months. this initiative strengthens the mechanisms to combat tax evasion and will come into force at the beginning of next year.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation. it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and training to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. therefore, i am voting in favour of the report approving the application egf/2015/012 be/hainaut machinery, for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is clear that this fund has been set up precisely to support working smes facing survival problems due to economic turmoil due to adaptation to a global environment. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. – it is of paramount importance to identify the spots that cause inefficiencies and worsening of the standards of labour for the workers who experience the pressures from the structural changes in the patterns of trade. the european globalisation adjustment fund must necessarily play its role in dealing with these problems and assist workers in their transition to other optimal labour and income allocations due to the necessary structural adjustments.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the this request is the sixth in 2016 and concerns the machinery and equipment industry. according to the report, about 800 people in wallonia, belgium, have been affected by this case. the total amount of the egf for belgium is eur 1 824 041. i supported the report.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and amending regulation (ec) no 302/2009. the establishment of quotas and fishing rules to protect bluefin tuna stocks is a particularly important issue. i voted in favour of the above proposal for a regulation, as in order to have a single and effective legislation throughout the european union, the measures included in the recovery plan and voted in 2012 and 2014 should be incorporated into a union regulation and implemented by all member states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the commission's proposal is to support a species threatened by overfishing and environmental risks, and we must support it. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the protection of fish stocks and the adoption of legislative measures to exploit and maintain the viability of fishing fleets must take account of the specificities of the respective sea areas and the states concerned.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the multiannual tuna recovery plan, as the protection of fish stocks and the adoption of legislative measures to exploit and maintain the viability of fishing fleets must take account of the specificities of the respective sea areas and the states concerned.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009 because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the protection of fish stocks and the adoption of legislative measures to exploit and maintain the viability of fishing fleets must take account of the specificities of the respective sea areas and the states concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr matos, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the restoration of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, as this plan provides for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities in the region.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the today's vote on the report on the establishment of a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting these stocks is part of the effort to protect and support certain species threatened by human activity. i believe that it is our duty to seek solutions to such problems and this plan can help to deal with them. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the protection of fish stocks and the adoption of legislative measures to exploit and maintain the viability of fishing fleets must take account of the specificities of the respective sea areas and the states concerned.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for fishing activities exploiting these stocks. the protection of fish stocks and the adoption of legislative measures to operate and maintain the viability of fishing fleets should take into account the specificities of the respective sea areas and the states concerned.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks, amending council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in brussels on 22 june 2016 and because the report is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the protection of fish stocks and the adoption of legislative measures to exploit and maintain the viability of fishing fleets must take account of the specificities of the respective sea areas and the states concerned.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ this initiative concerns fishing activities in the baltic sea area, in particular cod, herring and sprat. the plan submitted is groundbreaking for the area and the first revision will take place over three years.
s&d), in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. i voted against the proposal for a regulation because it is clearly in the interest of the union and of couples who face many delays, as it will make it possible in many cases to avoid confusion and legal uncertainty.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes deals with issues faced by thousands of european citizens on a daily basis. i believe that the proposed changes are necessary to make life easier for these citizens, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the report attempts to establish a regulatory framework for the family law matters of international couples. we are opposed to the involvement of eu legislation in family matters, since each member state has its own legislation covering the issues in question. as regards the particular features of international couples, private international law provides the necessary security for the effective regulation of such relationships.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report attempts to institute a regulatory framework for the family law matters of international couples. i am opposed to the involvement of eu legislation in the regulation of family matters, as each member state has adequate legislation covering the issues in question. as regards the particular features of international couples, private international law provides the necessary security for the effective regulation of such relationships.
in writing. ‒ it is a matter that needs to be addressed and the report is addressing it in an appropriate way setting up the next future steps. this proposal for a regulation on matrimonial property regimes is clearly in the interest of the eu and of its international couples. it will make it possible to put an end to many cases of confusion and legal uncertainty. the current proposal, the second on this topic, has incorporated a large proportion of the amendments proposed earlier by parliament. your rapporteur therefore proposes that parliament issue a favourable opinion on this proposal, without any substantive amendments at this stage.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regime, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 22 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report attempts to establish a regulatory framework for the family law matters of international couples. we are opposed to the involvement of eu legislation in family matters, since each member state has its own legislation covering the issues in question. as regards the particular features of international couples, private international law provides the necessary security for the effective regulation of such relationships.
in writing. ‒ this initiative concerns international couples in the eu and settles property issues with some exceptions mentioned in the text. the report was adopted by a large majority in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament. i voted yes.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report concerns the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. i personally voted in favour of this report, alongside the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament, as it will help to improve european legislation in this area and will make life easier for many european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. this issue affects thousands of european citizens and the promotion of flexible solutions such as this one serves their needs. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the report attempts to establish a regulatory framework for the family law matters of international couples. we are opposed to the involvement of eu legislation in family matters, since each member state has its own legislation covering the issues in question. as regards the particular features of international couples, private international law provides the necessary security for the effective regulation of such relationships.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report attempts to institute a regulatory framework for the family law matters of international couples. i am opposed to the involvement of eu legislation in the regulation of family matters, as each member state has adequate legislation covering the issues in question. as regards the particular features of international couples, private international law provides the necessary security for the effective regulation of such relationships.
in writing. ‒ i have voted this proposal for a regulation on the property consequences of registered partnerships as it is clearly in the interest of the eu and of its international couples. it will make it possible to put an end to many cases of confusion and legal uncertainty. the current proposal, the second on this topic, has incorporated a large proportion of the amendments proposed by parliament. your rapporteur therefore proposes that parliament issue a favourable opinion on this proposal, without any substantive amendments at this stage.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regime, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 22 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report attempts to establish a regulatory framework for the family law matters of international couples. we are opposed to the involvement of eu legislation in family matters, since each member state has its own legislation covering the issues in question. as regards the particular features of international couples, private international law provides the necessary security for the effective regulation of such relationships.
in writing. ‒ i followed the proposal of the rapporteur responsible, as approved by my colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, by voting in favour.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the security situation in the democratic republic of congo continues to deteriorate in the northeastern part of the country, where dozens of armed groups are operating, leaving thousands dead. according to many reports, there are massacres, underage children are victims of forced recruitment and violence, and often there are incidents of sexual violence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution on the massacres in eastern congo is a matter of concern to all of us and we are called upon to deal with it for the benefit of innocent people. expressing our deep concern about the growing tensions and inhumane practices against civilians in this region is the least we can do in an effort to de-escalate tensions and end the violence. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - we vote against. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against all the reports. although every reasonable person can only condemn the events in the congo, my constant position is that of non-interference in the internal affairs of third countries, which i still follow.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the motion as it addresses an issue of the utmost importance for the people of congo. should the council and the commission act upon what we ask them to do, we will witness a change benefiting the lives of the locals.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the joint motion for a resolution on the massacres in eastern congo for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 22 june 2016 and because the report in question is well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the events taking place in the democratic republic of congo are reprehensible. but the eu must not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the situation in the northeast of the congo is deteriorating. between october 2014 and may 2016, more than 1,160 people were massacred and 1,470 disappeared in areas of north kivu. according to figures incorporated in the resolution, the ongoing conflict has displaced 1.5 million people from their homes, while 400,000 have been forced to flee the country. finally, there is a serious problem in the provision and access to humanitarian aid, with increased attacks on members of humanitarian organisations and a number of kidnappings of humanitarian workers. i voted in favour of this initiative which calls, among other things, on the parties to the conflict to respect the independence, neutrality and impartiality of humanitarian agencies.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the follow-up to the implementation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (ec 2020) because it addresses extremely important issues such as migration for educational purposes and the quality of education/training.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the follow-up to the implementation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training is a special process which we must approach carefully, for the benefit of europe's pupils and students. although this report contains positive elements on the harmonisation of procedures for citizens' education and training at a pan-european level, i believe that it fails to avoid discrimination against refugees and migrants in the population as a whole and that is why i was absent.
in writing. - we vote against. the european union is not interested in stopping the continuing degradation of education in europe, but is only concerned with illegal immigrants and socially unfit ideologues who try to impose their views on pupils.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the follow-up to the implementation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training, as this unacceptable text once again demonstrates that the union, instead of being concerned with how to stop the continuing degradation of education in europe, is only concerned with illegal immigrants and socially unsuitable ideologues who try to impose their views on pupils.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the follow-up to the implementation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (eq 2020), for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in brussels on 22 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the well-known eu objectives for education serving the europe 2020 strategy, i.e. the profits of monopolies, were reiterated in the resolution on the implementation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (ec2020) . the resolution promotes 'lifelong learning' and the continuous acquisition of 'appropriate and high-quality skills and competences' that 'promote employability', i.e. the fragmentation of knowledge in order to adapt workers to the needs of business groups for specific skills over a specific period of time. the bologna treaty, which was the beginning of a series of reactionary changes in the universities, is celebrated. the resolution is based on the idea that education is a commodity. the popular families, the young workers should put their hands in their pockets and, if they do not have them, they should resort to scholarships, but also to loans as proposed. the european parliament's group of the european people's party voted against the resolution for these reasons. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competitive' in the definition of the term 'competitive' and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competitive' in the definition of the term 'competitive'.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ education beyond the provision of knowledge to young people should focus on their education and upbringing with respect for human values, morality, ethics and the specificities of their respective nations. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of schools, the development of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the creation of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the european network of schools, the european network of schools, the european network of schools, the european network of schools, the european network of networks, the european network of networks, the network of networks, the european network of networks, the network of networks, the network of networks, the network of networks, the network of networks, the network of the network of networks, the
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as a member of the committee on culture and education, which concerns the implementation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in different sectors of society in the field of education and training.
in writing. ‒ the the well-known eu objectives for education serving the europe 2020 strategy, i.e. the profits of monopolies, were reiterated in the resolution on the implementation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (ec2020) . the resolution promotes 'lifelong learning' and the continuous acquisition of 'appropriate and high-quality skills and competences' that 'promote employability', i.e. the fragmentation of knowledge in order to adapt workers to the needs of business groups for specific skills over a specific period of time. the bologna treaty, which was the beginning of a series of reactionary changes in the universities, is celebrated. the resolution is based on the idea that education is a commodity. the popular families, the young workers should put their hands in their pockets and, if they do not have them, they should resort to scholarships, but also to loans as proposed. the european parliament's group of the european people's party voted against the resolution for these reasons. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competitive' in the definition of the term 'competitive' and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competitive' in the definition of the term 'competitive'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on progress in renewable energy because it refers to the progress achieved on the eu 2020 targets as well as the framework for the 2030 targets.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on progress in the field of renewable energy sources. i think it is obvious that such reports are promoting the selection of new energy sources, more environmentally friendly, and possibly to restart the economy, through the creation of investment and job prospects. i therefore regard this as a positive effort and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - we vote against. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on progress in the field of renewable energy sources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the progress report on renewable energy sources, as i believe that the development of renewable energy sources requires a new orientation that makes them the fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model. the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority that cannot be addressed by the market alone.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the progress report on renewable energy sources for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 23 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the in 1968 researchers warned the american petroleum institute that carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels could lead to global environmental changes. 48 years later and while science and technology have made leaps, appropriate technologies for the optimal use of renewable energy sources are still not being implemented. we wondered why? the deliberate concealment of scientific findings, the concealment of information and the deliberate misleading of public opinion have imposed the short-sighted policy of temporary profit-making on large companies at the expense of corresponding sustainable options. oil giants and corporations spend $115 million a year blocking climate policies. at the same time, they are pressing for gas to emerge as the key technology by which europe will reduce carbon dioxide emissions economically. the european union is responding to the situation by setting low targets and pursuing moderate policies. we are committing a crime. not only at the expense of the environment, but especially at the expense of our children. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the development and implementation of renewable energy sources must be substantially supported and those responsible for obstruction must be punished.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i took a positive stance by voting in favour of the progress report on renewable energy, a text supported by the vast majority of meps and most political groups, both in the committee on industry, research and energy and in the associated committees on the environment, public health and food safety, regional development and agriculture and rural development.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the implementation report on the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu) because it looks at how the energy efficiency directive has been implemented by the member states. in addition, it refers to the progress made towards the 2020 energy efficiency targets as well as the framework for the 2030 targets.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the implementation report on the energy efficiency directive is a typical item for analysis and discussion on the progress of the report, but it is a good attempt to promote processes that are relevant not only to energy and economic issues but also to environmental issues. i think it is moving in the right direction and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - we are overwhelmed. the report concerns the implementation of an existing directive and its improvement. it certainly does not avoid some verbal exaggerations and the usual hostility towards russia, but it is in general necessary for europe and good for the environment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the implementation report on the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu) as it concerns the implementation of an existing directive and its improvement. it certainly does not avoid some verbal exaggerations and the usual hostility towards russia, but it is in general necessary for europe and good for the environment.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive, as i believe that it is necessary for the union to adopt a strategy for greater energy efficiency. it is very important that the european union achieves the 20% target for 2020, even though the directive is not fully implemented in most member states. the 40% target for 2030 is quite ambitious but, depending on the state of the union economy, it may become achievable.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in brussels on 23 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the in 1968 researchers warned the american petroleum institute that carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels could lead to global environmental changes. 48 years later and while science and technology have made leaps, appropriate technologies for the optimal use of renewable energy sources are still not being implemented. we wondered why? the deliberate concealment of scientific findings, the concealment of information and the deliberate misleading of public opinion have imposed the short-sighted policy of temporary profit-making on large companies at the expense of corresponding sustainable options. oil giants and corporations spend $115 million a year blocking climate policies. at the same time, they are pressing for gas to emerge as the key technology by which europe will reduce carbon dioxide emissions economically. the european union is responding to the situation by setting low targets and pursuing moderate policies. we are committing a crime. not only at the expense of the environment, but especially at the expense of our children. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the development and implementation of renewable energy sources must be substantially supported and those responsible for obstruction must be punished.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the energy efficiency directive of the committee on industry, research and energy. the text of mr pieper takes account of important positive points, but also of inadequate points, especially in its application. in any event, the content has been considered favourably by most members of the committee responsible.
in writing. ‒ i propose that this motion for a resolution be voted on. the european project has clearly failed. on 23 june the british people decided that their future lay outside the eu and that under no circumstances should the eu show any vengeful tendencies against the uk.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the outcome of the referendum in the united kingdom, as the european project has clearly failed. on 23 june the british people decided that their future lay outside the eu and that under no circumstances should the eu show any vengeful tendencies against the uk.
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's group of the european people's party voted against the joint resolution of the people's party, the social democrats, the liberals and the greens on the uk's withdrawal from the eu. the resolution seeks, in the context of intense controversy and competition, to set out the conditions for european union monopolies to conclude the agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu. it also tries, as does the propaganda of the syriza-anel government, to present the eu, this association of monopolies, as a supposed defender of the people's interests, sowing illusions that the eu can be 'reformed, made better, more democratic' and so on. the eu cannot become pro-people. it serves capital and therefore only worse for the people can be done. the working class and the other poor popular strata have no other way out than to fight to overthrow the power of the capitalists and with the keys of the economy in their hands to impose in their own interests the disengagement from the eu, nato and any other alliance of capital.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against the final vote on the joint resolution on the united kingdom's withdrawal from the eu. i have chosen this because the resolution adopted does not clearly and honestly describe the real causes of the eu's crisis and the changes needed in the european union's course in order to regain the citizens' trust. the resolution avoids any clear reference to the continuing austerity policies, their distorted and unilateral architecture, the growing social and regional inequalities and the lack of a comprehensive and cohesive european refugee policy, as proposed in the resolution and its amendments, which were unfortunately rejected by the left group.
in writing. ‒ the european project has clearly failed. on 23 june the british people decided that their future lay outside the eu and that under no circumstances should the eu show any vengeful tendencies against the uk.
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's group of the european people's party voted against the joint resolution of the people's party, the social democrats, the liberals and the greens on the uk's withdrawal from the eu. the resolution seeks, in the context of intense controversy and competition, to set out the conditions for european union monopolies to conclude the agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu. it also tries, as does the propaganda of the syriza-anel government, to present the eu, this association of monopolies, as a supposed defender of the people's interests, sowing illusions that the eu can be 'reformed, made better, more democratic' and so on. the eu cannot become pro-people. it serves capital and therefore only worse for the people can be done. the working class and the other poor popular strata have no other way out than to fight to overthrow the power of the capitalists and with the keys of the economy in their hands to impose in their own interests the disengagement from the eu, nato and any other alliance of capital.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one. however, union legislation, while respecting the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, cannot be uniform for all member states. the development of each country must be taken into account, as must its historical contribution to emissions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. the principle of historical contribution to greenhouse gas emissions should therefore also govern community legislation on emission limits for non-road mobile machinery. in addition, the economic realities of each country and particularly the production sector must be taken very seriously. we cannot ask for greek farmers to adapt to the new emission limits for agricultural machinery on the one hand, and on the other hand, at the same time, be subject to a violent tax policy because of the memoranda.
the commission the european union's alleged concern for the integration of refugees into the labour market does not conceal its responsibility for their plight, nor its aims, but reveals its barbarity. provoking refugee flows by interfering, repressing, and returning refugees in violation of refugee status. closed borders, incitement to xenophobia, racism, fascism, the trapping of thousands in the first-receiving countries, as promoted by the report 'making the most of training'. distribute what and where they need, filling demographic gaps, labour shortages, dehumanizing them as cheap labour, further pushing down the general wage level, generalizing by pressing on them with flexible employment. the report is quite provocative, praising the tax contributions of refugees to their families' coffers. the main thing is: promoting refugees in the countries of their destination with recognition of refugee status, integration into the workforce with full rights for those who choose to stay where they are today, direct support for the education and employment of refugee children under the responsibility of the state and not ngos that extract huge funds. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. first of all, i question the figures you gave on the wages of refugees in austria. secondly, i would remind you that austria and other countries have erected fences on their borders to prevent anyone from crossing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the refugees are not used as cheap labour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report under discussion itself admits this.
the commission madam president, another set of ideas and ideologies is coming up for debate in the european parliament. without having yet determined how many are refugees and how many are illegal immigrants, and having left thousands stranded in greece and italy, by closing the borders, you are giving incentives to flood europe with even more immigrants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. have you asked the european citizens if they want them? i like your fairy tale, but there are a lot of dragons. those who have bled in belgium and france and spread fear in airports, the subway, even at sports events and jobs have had european education provided for them. but you have not been able to integrate them, because there is one factor that you refuse to acknowledge: the religious hatred they have against us, because of religion and because of culture, and that drives them to exterminate those they consider infidels. we must stop wars and interventions in third countries and seek to live peacefully in their own countries. strengthen the institution of the traditional family in europe, to increase the workforce and, finally, let european citizens decide and not capitalists and appointed technocrats. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. when you say "others", i don't know who you mean, but you may mean muslims. i am not talking about all muslims, i am talking about these fanatics who are coming to shed blood in europe. it is clear that you cannot control these flows of illegal immigrants coming in, who are coming to do harm to europe and who are coming to escape the fire of war or want to carry the fire of war to europe.
the commission madam president, it has been shown to date that the integration of refugees and migrants has led to even greater unemployment, lower wages and the breakdown of the welfare state. when the german wise men's committee last year proposed the creation of starvation wages, ostensibly to better integrate the refugees and migrants who were entering germany in large numbers, it was aimed at the chineseisation of wages in the european union. as long as the countries of the european south are plagued by poverty and unemployment, the integration of refugees and migrants into the labour market cannot take place. i have therefore asked that the allocation clauses for refugees between member states take account of the rate of economic growth and the level of unemployment, in addition to gdp and population. real integration also means accepting and respecting the constitutional framework and laws of the host country and abandoning various outdated social practices and notions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this has already caused a brexit. let us see what happens to change the course of the european union.
the commission madam president, the european union is full of armies of poor and unemployed people. there are already over 4.2 million unemployed young people. the unemployment of 21 million europeans, as well as youth unemployment, is due to merkel's austerity and to the violent fiscal adjustment. the measures to reduce youth unemployment, such as the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative, will therefore bear no fruit as long as the member states adhere to schäuble's directives for a tough austerity policy. so, commissioner, mrs thyssen, although you are applying the schäuble doctrine as a commission, schäuble himself is finally emptying you, criticizing you further and issuing you a red card, trying to blame you for the failures of his own economic policy, which has turned the european south, and in particular greece, into a place of mass unemployment. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a step in the right direction, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the commission madam president, the dysfunction in the implementation of the youth guarantee and youth employment initiative programmes guarantees that these programmes will fail. this development is unfortunately inevitable, because at a time when youth unemployment is at its highest in europe and in greece it has reached an unacceptable level of 67%, the leaders of the european union are not interested in giving young people in europe decent work so that they can exploit their great talents and develop and grow. they are interested in attracting talented young people from third countries to the european labour market, as mr juncker said. in other words, they are interested in securing cheap labour and to do this they are destroying education in all countries so that europe's young people are not educated and have no demands from their employers to get a decent wage. this methodology uses greece as a guinea pig, whose governments have signed the memoranda, destroys greek education and forces greek young people to emigrate. but we, who love the country, love the young and believe that the young are... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission mr president, energy efficiency policy is linked to decisions in the areas of security of supply, climate change, sustainable development and the internal market. however, as things stand today, especially in the countries of the european south, it is important that energy efficiency should be aimed primarily at eliminating the shameful phenomenon of energy poverty. the target set by the council of the european union in october 2014 is to increase energy efficiency to 27% by 2030. to that end, providers and sellers in all member states should provide valid and visible information on the energy performance of their products. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary resources to finance the information efforts aimed at informing citizens.
the commission mr president, so far the union's strategy on trade and investment policies is supposed to be based on efficiency, transparency and values, in order, ostensibly, to provide benefits to all citizens of its member states. in particular, the juncker plan envisages that the european fund for strategic investments will generate a total of eur 315 billion of additional investment in the economy over the next three years. for greece, which has been impoverished by the memoranda, 42 investment projects have already been submitted. however, only two of these projects have been implemented, with the procredit group and creta farm. at the same time, instead of promoting fair trade for all, the european union is trying, through partnership agreements such as ttip, to eliminate tariff barriers by dismantling european agriculture and favouring multinational companies, at the expense of small companies and producers. it is therefore necessary for the european union to finance investment projects in the european south and in greece and to put an end to policies such as ttip.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the negative outcome of the british referendum on european union underlines the need for a change of course if we do not want to see the integration process completely derailed in the years ahead. a large proportion of european citizens feel alienated from decision-making processes, while the economic crisis and the policies of bloody austerity have accelerated the impoverishment of those social classes and national economies as a whole which have already had difficulty keeping up with the pace of evolving globalisation. we urgently need a democratisation of the european structure with more and more substantial legislative powers for the european parliament and greater dependence of the european commission on it. and we need more solidarity, both between member states and within societies, with redistribution from the haves to the have-nots and not the other way around, as is happening today. dare before it's too late.
s & d) and the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. the greek government has, however, made a substantial shift towards europe and cooperation with its institutions. but as a recent letter from commissioner oettinger points out, this is no longer the case and the government is seeking to systematically undermine the independence of national regulators. i shall give three examples of this. first, the framework for licensing television stations is decided, if possible, arbitrarily by the minister himself. secondly, there have been provocative sanctions against greek journalists for supporting the "yes" vote in the referendum. thirdly, the latest blatant and provocative incursion by the prosecutor's office and the police into a major television channel in greece. i therefore call on all of you to support the dominant role of the independent authorities in greece and throughout europe.
the commission mr president, brexit was a democratic victory for the british people who went to the polls en masse and rejected the european union of bureaucrats and bankers, austerity and multinationals. unfortunately, the way in which the outcome of the referendum is being treated by some incurable, supposedly europeanists is unacceptable, not only because they refuse to abandon austerity but also because, on the sidelines of the european council, an unprecedented attack was launched on the united kingdom with the sole aim of overturning the referendum. but both the scots and the irish know very well that the supposed solidarity that the european bureaucracy has suddenly expressed is nothing but crocodile tears, because when the referendum was held in scotland in 2014, no european was involved. it is simply that the ukrainization of britain is now being driven from various circles, back and forth across the atlantic. but the attempt to undermine democracy will be defeated, both in britain and in greece, and in the rest of europe.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the conclusions of the european council meeting today demonstrate a great truth. the eu leadership has not understood the real causes of brexit. most focused on the economic sector. but this is not about money. it's political. it is the limitation of the functioning of the nation-states with the result that there is economic impoverishment of the people, that all sense of welfare for the people has been destroyed, that there is an uncontrolled invasion of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who threaten the existence of european states. that is why many countries are turning their backs on the schengen treaty and closing their borders. it is the eu's departure from the principles of its founders, which envisaged a cooperation of equal and sovereign nation states working together to promote the interests of its peoples. this has now been replaced by german dominance, and we are therefore moving full speed ahead in a two-speed europe. it's the departure from principle and democracy, even if you don't admit it. it is the destruction of a country, greece, in order to save the euro, which no one accepts. so you are setting the eu on the right path to continue to exist. otherwise, get out of the way! you've been marginalized by history.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the choice of the british people is largely an expression of the growing discontent with the anti-people policy of the eu, which needs to be freed from the ambitions of sections and parties of the bourgeoisie, reactionary and dangerous forces and to take on a radical anti-capitalist character. both brexit and the decisions of the council are being used to blackmail the greek people into accepting the barbaric measures, in the name of eu cohesion, the objective of capitalist recovery, while threats are already being made against the peoples of spain and portugal. the eu cannot be fixed, it cannot be made pro-people. it serves capital and therefore only worse for the people can be done. the working class and other poor popular strata have no other way out than to fight for capitalist property and power and to impose in their own interests the disengagement from the eu, nato and any other alliance of capital
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the choice of the british people is largely an expression of the growing discontent with the anti-people policy of the eu, which needs to be freed from the ambitions of sections and parties of the bourgeoisie, reactionary and dangerous forces and to take on a radical anti-capitalist character. both brexit and the decisions of the council are being used to blackmail the greek people into accepting the barbaric measures, in the name of eu cohesion, the objective of capitalist recovery, while threats are already being made against the peoples of spain and portugal. the eu cannot be fixed, it cannot be made pro-people. it serves capital and therefore only worse for the people can be done. the working class and other poor popular strata have no other way out than to fight for capitalist property and power and to impose in their own interests the disengagement from the eu, nato and any other alliance of capital.
the commission madam president, i voted against the brexit resolution because it supports the forces of the nomenclature of the banks and the bureaucracy in brussels, forces which, just as they did not tolerate the 'no' of the greek people in last year's magnificent referendum, do not tolerate the decision of the british people to leave the european union and to pursue their own historic path. it is clear that the united kingdom is undergoing an attack unprecedented in history, aimed at overturning the democratic will of its citizens. the extraordinary plenary session of the european parliament last tuesday showed clearly the vindictive attitude of various parties towards britain and the launching of the ukrainization of the united kingdom. it seemed that the old political world of europe was unrepentantly continuing with 'business as usual', with the policy of merkel's austerity, of violent fiscal adjustment, of support for the banking system and the ttip. the citizens of europe are reacting and are calling for a different europe, a europe of solidarity and social justice, a europe which respects the national sovereignty of states and the sovereign will of the peoples.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-peru agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, which marks an important milestone in the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru and is an additional means to accelerate economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the recommendation for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the unlike the other countries of the cotonou agreement and other south american countries, peru poses no threat to the eu, either in terms of illegal immigration or in terms of security and public order. the low rejection rate of visa applications shows that there is a high degree of trust in visa applicants. finally, the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver contributes significantly to the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru and constitutes a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the agreement because peru, unlike the other countries of the cotonou agreement and other south american countries, does not represent any threat to the eu, either in terms of illegal immigration or in terms of security and public order. the low rejection rate of visa applications shows that there is a high degree of trust in visa applicants. finally, the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver contributes significantly to the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru and constitutes a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of my colleague as the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver completes the deepening of the european union's relations with the republic of peru, and is a complementary means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the this recommendation is addressed to the approval of the bilateral agreement between the european union and the republic of peru providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of peru when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. the deepening of the union's relations with third countries, in this case the republic of peru, can benefit the tourism, trade and investment sectors and promote political dialogue on the protection of human rights in the country. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the unlike the other countries of the cotonou agreement and other south american countries, peru poses no threat to the eu, either in terms of illegal immigration or in terms of security and public order. the low rejection rate of visa applications shows that there is a high degree of trust in visa applicants. finally, the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver contributes significantly to the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru and constitutes a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ this agreement was supported by a large majority of the political forces in the competent committee of the european parliament. peru is experiencing rapid economic growth, the eu is its third largest trading partner and its largest investor. i voted in favour of this vote.
in writing. ‒ the this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limits and type-approval for internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. the proposal for a regulation, which i voted in favour of, is aimed at regulating harmful emissions from engines of so-called off-road mobile machinery. these engines are a major contributor to air pollution and are responsible for about 15% of the eu's nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter. as these rates are likely to increase in the coming years and as the legislation on road vehicles has become stricter, while the corresponding legislation for this category remains the same, it is necessary to develop a new legislative framework for these sectors that will contribute to achieving the union's objectives for improving air quality.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report on the requirements for emission limits and type-approval for internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. i believe that environmental protection policies should be a priority for europe, as we must act immediately before it is too late for the environment. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the this regulation aims to establish harmonised rules for the eu type-approval of engines installed in non-road mobile machinery, in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market for air quality. we reject the proposal because the health and safety of european citizens is a priority. we agree that new emission limits should be established, which should also apply to agricultural vehicles, reflecting technological progress and ensuring convergence with union road transport policies, in order to achieve air quality objectives and to reduce emissions from non-road mobile machinery and agricultural vehicles, resulting in a more proportionate share of emissions from machinery compared to emissions from road vehicles. finally, the scope of legislation in this area should be extended in order to improve market harmonisation and minimise the risk of market distortions and adverse health effects.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the proposal because the health and safety of european citizens is a priority. i agree that new emission limits should be established, which should also apply to agricultural vehicles, reflecting technological progress and ensuring convergence with union road transport policies, in order to achieve air quality objectives and to reduce emissions from non-road mobile machinery and agricultural vehicles, resulting in a more proportionate share of emissions from machinery compared to emissions from road vehicles. finally, the scope of legislation in this area should be extended in order to improve market harmonisation and minimise the risk of market distortions and adverse health effects.
in writing. – i have voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on requirements relating to emission limits and type-approval for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery, as it addresses adequately the public health concern created by studies indicating ultra-fine particles as a carcinogenic substance. today, several eu urban areas do not fully meet the air quality standards. this issue is growing as more people are attracted to life in urban conglomerations. the report is trying to solve those problems.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical proposal relevant to the eu’s efforts to strike a reasonable balance between industrial competitiveness and health and environmental concerns, and more particularly to address public health concern about air quality. the choice of a new legal instrument, in the form of a regulation, offers the possibility of harmonising provisions on the potential end of life of some categories of machinery that have no independent wheels, by replacing them by less pollutant engines. this could contribute to a drastic reduction in emissions of co2 and other harmful pollutants. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limitation and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 4/7/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the this regulation aims to establish harmonised rules for the eu type-approval of engines installed in non-road mobile machinery, in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market for air quality. the health and safety of european citizens is a priority. we agree that new emission limits should be established, which should also apply to agricultural vehicles, reflecting technological progress and ensuring convergence with union road transport policies, in order to achieve air quality objectives and to reduce emissions from non-road mobile machinery and agricultural vehicles, resulting in a more proportionate share of emissions from machinery compared to emissions from road vehicles. finally, the scope of legislation in this area should be extended in order to improve market harmonisation and minimise the risk of market distortions and adverse health effects.
in writing. ‒ the the report concerns the regulation on a wider variety of combustion engines fitted to items such as, inter alia, construction machinery, engines and inland waterway vessels and tractors. the rapporteur's proposals cover both environmental objectives and the needs of supporting the economy and competitiveness of the relevant sectors in the eu. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, of which i am a member, has delivered an opinion on this. the report was adopted by a large majority in the committee responsible for the environment, public health and food safety. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on refugees, on social inclusion and their integration into the labour market, because we need policies of this kind to ensure their equal treatment without discrimination.
in writing. ‒ the report on refugees, their social integration and integration into the labour market is a good attempt to safeguard and strengthen the rights of refugees in europe. as the mass influx of refugees is a phenomenon unprecedented for europe, we must take action to ensure social balance and opportunities for all. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the we are aware that the geneva convention was created solely to protect european refugees after the second world war, and taking into account that 24.4% of the total population is at risk of poverty and social exclusion, while 10% is facing severe material deprivation, we reject the report and the opinion of the committee on culture and education on refugees, concerning their social integration and integration into the labour market. it is a fact that the unprecedented number of asylum seekers in europe, but especially the vulnerability of refugees to undeclared work, will not only tax the eu, but also increase the rate of youth unemployment. the commission and the member states must give priority to political investment and jobs for eu citizens, with a particular focus on the most vulnerable. adapting social inclusion and integration policies to the particular needs of refugees will undoubtedly create serious problems in the individual member states, because, in addition to affecting a heterogeneous group of people who are unable to integrate with the european element, it requires immediate financial support, in a period of economic crisis, when health care, social protection, education and, above all, the labour market are threatened by the migration problem, which hangs like a sword of damocles over the head of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report and the opinion of the committee on culture and education on refugees, concerning their social integration and integration into the labour market. it is a fact that the unprecedented number of asylum seekers in europe, but especially the vulnerability of refugees to undeclared work, will not only tax the eu, but also increase the rate of youth unemployment. the commission and the member states should give priority to policy investment and jobs for eu citizens, with particular emphasis on the most vulnerable (ldcs). adapting social inclusion and integration policies to the particular needs of refugees will undoubtedly create serious problems in the individual member states, because, in addition to affecting a heterogeneous group of people who are unable to integrate with the european element, it requires immediate financial support, in a period of economic crisis, when health care, social protection, education and, above all, the labour market are threatened by the migration problem, which like a damocles hangs over the head of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the the management of the refugee crisis is without doubt the most important challenge facing the european union and its society in the last year. it is first and foremost a humanitarian crisis of global proportions, but more particularly a policy crisis, which has left the european union unprepared and therefore requires urgent and decisive action by policy-makers and long-term measures based on the needs of society and the labour market. i voted in favour of the report because it is of the utmost importance to ensure that measures aimed at social integration and the integration of refugees into the labour market are adequately supported, while at the same time preventing any form of competition between the most disadvantaged groups in our societies as recipients of such support.
in writing. ‒ the report adopts a practical approach, attempting to clarify the socio-economic facet of the refugee crisis. it is crucial to identify the elements of complexity for the social inclusion of refugees and their integration into the labour market. these elements are mostly connected to the current macroeconomic situation of the union and the record levels of unemployment, and also to the suspicious stance that the public may adopt towards asylum seekers and refugees who claim access to employment. the report constitutes a good starting point, as it puts forward a series of proposals specifically focused on addressing these aggravating factors, in line with society and labour market needs. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on refugees: social inclusion and integration into the labour market, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 4 july 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ the it is a fact that the unprecedented number of asylum seekers in europe, but especially the vulnerability of refugees to undeclared work, will not only tax the eu, but also increase the rate of youth unemployment. the commission and the member states should give priority to policy investment and jobs for eu citizens, with particular emphasis on the most vulnerable (ldcs). adapting social inclusion and integration policies to the particular needs of refugees will undoubtedly create serious problems in the individual member states, because, in addition to affecting a heterogeneous group of people who are unable to integrate with the european element, it requires immediate financial support, in a period of economic crisis, when health care, social protection, education and, above all, the labour market are threatened by the migration problem, which hangs like a sword of damocles over the head of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the refugee crisis is a reality that the eu must tackle globally and realistically. in countries like greece, which has also been under the greatest pressure because of its geographical location, the necessary assistance must be given and a sustainable strategy must be implemented for the benefit of all. this initiative takes into account important parameters with mutual benefits for refugees, host countries and the eu as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, as all of the above have become issues of major concern to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility is another reminder of the obligation to respect the rules that govern european society. i think it is a useful report and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the union's trade relations must serve the economic and political interests of the member states and european citizens, not 'democratic values' as conceived by the union's leaders. interventionism and economic blackmail cannot be considered as "values" in 2016. the resolution is completely out of step with reality and is characterized by marxist views on international relations and trade.
in writing. ‒ the union's trade relations must serve the economic and political interests of the member states and european citizens, and not 'democratic values' as understood by the union's leaders. interventionism and economic blackmail cannot be considered as "values" in 2016. the resolution is completely out of step with reality and is characterized by marxist views on international relations and trade. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ the we must acknowledge the adoption by the commission of the guidelines proposed by the european parliament in relation to social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. however, much still needs to be done, particularly in relation to issues relating to women's employment relations and the critical issue of child labour. the eu must not show a lack of standards in these areas when it comes to trade with external partners. parliament, as the co-legislator of international trade relations, will continue to be the guardian of these social requirements.
in writing. ‒ the this is a major exhibition, promoting the human-centred, social and environmental approach to european trade policy. the commission and the member states are called upon to work to ensure that all parties to trade agreements comply with international standards on human rights, gender equality, labour law and respect for the environment. these guarantees may also be decisive for the outcome of the ttip negotiations. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the implementation of the 2010 recommendations of parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility, for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 4/7/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the union's trade relations must serve the economic and political interests of the member states and european citizens, and not 'democratic values' as understood by the union's leaders. interventionism, as well as economic blackmail, cannot be considered as "values" in the year 2016. the report is completely out of touch with reality.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report of the committee on international trade which recognises the important steps forward in developing countries on our goals on human rights, sustainable development, the promotion of corporate and social responsibility, but also points out the initiatives to be taken in the future for even better results.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on a new long-term and innovative future strategy for trade and investment which stresses the need for europe to be open to trade for the sake of jobs and growth. it is, however, noted that the application of the right international rules and safety nets is nevertheless required to ensure that ordinary citizens benefit from trade and investment.
in writing. ‒ the we have voted on the report on a new long-term and innovative trade and investment strategy. such efforts are not necessarily negative, as they can serve to improve conditions in the economic, trade and business sectors. i think, however, that this report rightly focuses on strengthening existing policy without offering solutions and without proposing changes to the trade strategy, to the defence of jobs or to climate change. that's why i refused.
in writing. ‒ the trade and investment strategy should be based on improving the regulatory frameworks for the development of enterprises, in particular micro and smes, and agriculture within the eu, taking into account the specificities of each country and with a view to its sustainable development. the primary objective is the prosperity of countries, not of companies at the expense of citizens and states.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on a new far-reaching and innovative future trade and investment strategy, as the trade and investment strategy should be based on improving the regulatory frameworks for the development of businesses, in particular micro and smes, as well as agriculture within the eu, based on the specificities of each country and with a view to its sustainable development. the primary objective is the prosperity of countries, not of companies at the expense of citizens and states.
in writing. ‒ the it is crucial that the commission updates the eu's trade policy in a consistent and relevant way. we are at a time when the challenges of globalisation are creating the impression that jobs are being lost for european citizens. but this is not accurate and the union enjoys competitive advantages which should be made more apparent to the european citizen. it is also crucial that the new context that is emerging leads to an update of the union's trade objectives, so that the focus is on the processing sector and eu agricultural products are protected in relation to their designation of origin and quality.
in writing. ‒ this report on trade for all, trade on future strategy for trade and investment, is issued in the context of a growing opposition to those who orient policies exclusively to business. but what is missing in this report is a real change in trade strategy, to orient policies in order to defend jobs, european industrialisation and to tackle climate change. the report is better than the first outcome from the commission, it contains some improvements and some good proposal. however i voted abstention to this report since i think that there is a lack of alternative strategy.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on a forward-looking and innovative future strategy for trade and investment for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 4 july 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the trade and investment strategy should be based on improving the regulatory frameworks for the development of enterprises, in particular micro and smes, and agriculture within the eu, taking into account the specificities of each country and with a view to its sustainable development. the primary objective is the prosperity of countries, not of companies at the expense of citizens and states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by the committee on international trade, which is the product of an enlarged majority among five political groups, who agreed to a large number of compromise amendments, which were adopted by the committee responsible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which deals with the fight against trafficking in human beings, highlights the huge financial revenues from this criminal activity and how these re-enter the global economy and the financial system. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised by the lack of cooperation between the member states and the commission.
in writing. ‒ the the report on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations is a very important social issue which we must deal with carefully. the need to protect citizens is continuous and there are positive elements in the reports. but the fact that the report does not make any specific proposals, and at the same time does not focus as much on the protection of refugees as it should, has led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the unfortunately, such an important issue is not being treated with the necessary seriousness and so the ideology of certain individuals has allowed this resolution to be turned into a tool for legalizing illegal immigration. the author ignores that trafficking rings of illegal immigrants in many cases also traffick in people, also ignores the fact that a large number of illegal immigrants declare false age in the countries of entry, in order to exploit loopholes such as this one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child soldiers, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission does not take any further action against the child soldiers. it is also at least a contradiction that the eu wants to crack down on trafficking in human beings and organs and at the same time kosovo is considered a candidate country for eu membership.
in writing. ‒ the unfortunately, such an important issue is not being treated with the necessary seriousness and so the ideology of certain individuals has allowed this resolution to be turned into a tool for legalizing illegal immigration. the author ignores that trafficking rings in many cases also traffic in people, and ignores the fact that a large number of illegal immigrants declare a false age in the countries of entry in order to exploit loopholes such as this one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child soldiers, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission does not take any further action against the child soldiers. the eu is also opposed to the use of force by the kosovo authorities to prevent the illegal trade in human beings and organs. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. – i voted for the report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the eu’s external relations as it addresses a universal need to tackle human trafficking in all of its dimensions. for that, a coordinated interdisciplinary approach is needed, and this report attempts to encompass all the various aspects of the problem with a multi-dimensional solution.
in writing. ‒ the although this report is part of the fight against the abominable form of modern slavery, human trafficking, i have decided to withdraw. i think that the text presents a number of good practices, but at the same time it does not go into specific measures. in addition, some references to the proposed capacity building at government and law enforcement level, including the capacities of border guards, immigration and asylum officials, need to be clarified.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report on combating trafficking in human beings in the context of the eu's external relations, because the report is not sufficiently documented.
in writing. ‒ the the kke strongly condemns all forms of trafficking in human beings, the most abhorrent of the exploitative systems. the report, however, systematically concealing its cause by what it proposes, not only fails to address human trafficking, but instead moves on the territory of those factors which give rise to it and reproduce it. the european parliament calls for the eu to strengthen its repressive mechanisms, which have proved unable to deal with the problem, and to seek to legitimize in the popular consciousness those mechanisms which are being developed with the popular labour movement as their main target. it promotes the replacement of the responsibility of the state and its structures to combat it and support the victims from controversial to suspicious ngos, which mathematically leads to the gigantication of criminal enterprises. because human trafficking is a huge criminal enterprise that yields untold profits. it is a consequence of the conversion of labour power into a commodity in capitalism, which automatically generates the conversion of people themselves into commodities, to serve the only value recognized by the rotten system of exploitation: the profit of capital. the fight to eliminate this inhuman enterprise and to combat it decisively is inextricably linked to the fight to eliminate the very womb that gives birth to it, the barbaric capitalist system.
in writing. ‒ the unfortunately, such an important issue is not being treated with the necessary seriousness and so the ideologies of certain individuals allow this report to be turned into a tool for the legalization of illegal immigration. the author is unaware that trafficking rings in many cases also traffic in people. it also ignores the fact that a large number of illegal immigrants declare false information in the countries of entry in order to exploit legal loopholes to their advantage, at the expense of people who are in real need.
in writing. ‒ the resolution takes account of different aspects of the phenomenon which, unfortunately, we have not yet been able to tackle. this initiative, which i supported, sets out a framework of issues relating to trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations, taking seriously into account the global dimension of the phenomenon, the different forms of exploitation, international and regional cooperation and the rights of victims.
in writing. ‒ the the kke strongly condemns all forms of trafficking in human beings, the most abhorrent of the exploitative systems. the report, however, systematically conceals its cause by what it proposes, and not only does it not address human trafficking, but it moves on the territory of those factors which give rise to it and reproduce it. the european parliament calls for the eu to strengthen its repressive mechanisms, which have proved unable to deal with the problem, and to seek to legitimize in the popular consciousness those mechanisms which are being developed with the popular labour movement as their main target. it promotes the replacement of the responsibility of the state and its structures to combat it and support the victims from controversial to suspicious ngos, which mathematically leads to the gigantication of criminal enterprises. because human trafficking is a huge criminal enterprise that yields untold profits. it is a consequence of the conversion of labour power into a commodity in capitalism, which automatically generates the conversion of people themselves into commodities, to serve the only value recognized by the rotten system of exploitation: the profit of capital. the fight to eliminate this inhuman enterprise and to combat it decisively is inextricably linked to the fight to eliminate the very womb that gives birth to it, the barbaric capitalist system.
the commission madam president, the multiannual financial framework is proving to be a failure as a cornerstone of budgetary discipline. and that's for two reasons. firstly, because the factors affecting the union and the member states are changing rapidly over time, and secondly because it imposes the application of a wrong economic policy, this strict budgetary discipline. it is counterproductive, if not foolish, for economic policies which lead economically weak countries into more recession and equally strong countries into domination to be legally binding. the multiannual financial framework does not need to be revised, it needs to be abolished. it has no capacity to deal with the existing crises, such as illegal immigration, terrorism, brexit, economic depression, unemployment, climate change. it lacks the flexibility to adapt to emerging threats, to extreme situations, and to future emerging challenges. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people. why is there ? i wonder.
the commission madam president, since 2013 it has been decided that the european union will spend a total of €959 billion over the six years 2014-2020, while draghi can allocate €1.5 trillion for quantitative easing within 18 months. despite the recession, poverty and armies of unemployed, the multiannual financial framework provides only €125.6 billion for growth support in the member states and, minuscule, only €15.6 billion for security and citizenship. but the scale of the current economic and refugee crisis requires a drastic increase in funding here and now, and of course it requires addressing the problems at their root. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the european parliament, which is the only institution in the world that can do so.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax havens are not used as a means of financing the taxpayer's activities. to the one trillion euros of illegal tax evasion, add several billion euros of legal tax evasion, that is, tax breaks, corporate subsidies from eu and national development laws, like the latest one from the greek government, paid in a tax explosion by the people. they'll be going with whatever you're saving from tax havens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no such thing! only, fair, as you say, competition to redistribute wealth with injustice always at the expense of the people. you cannot abolish the dna of capitalism, which is the expansion of poverty by the accumulation of wealth that has no home, especially in the union of its free movement. the heavens are not the cause, but the effect. finally, you hide the great scandal: either the taxed or the tax-free wealth is sweat-stolen from the only real producers, the workers, who must get it back in their hands.
the commission mr president, the extent of tax evasion and avoidance is estimated at one trillion euros per year worldwide and at 50 to 70 billion euros per year in the member states of the union. this is confirmed by the luxleaks and panama papers scandals, which include the names of 400 greeks linked to 233 offshore companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxpayers are not forced to pay the tax they owe. in addition, surveys show that europe's smes pay on average 30 per cent more tax than multinational companies, distorting competition and leading to job losses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted, and that the tax authorities are not forced to take action against the tax authorities.
the commission mr president, the european border and coast guard is another military police mechanism of the european union for the repression of refugees and migrants, with the agreement of the greek government. it undermines the sovereign rights of each country, because if a member state does not comply with the measures imposed or refuses to allow rapid intervention forces to enter its borders, which will be decided by the council and not unanimously, that member state will be threatened with the blackmail of reintroducing controls at its borders, in the context of the reactionary schengen treaty. the main task of the new reactionary mechanism is to deport and push back thousands of displaced refugees and migrants who are trying to escape from the war and poverty fuelled by the european union, its allies and capitalist rivalries. the communist party of greece is clear: solidarity with refugees means recognizing them and their rights as defined by international conventions, providing temporary, dignified accommodation and livelihood by removing their enclosure, means no facilitation, no involvement in.... (the president interrupts)
the commission the creation of the european border and coast guard is another deadly method of the european union's leadership, which will suffer the same fate as its predecessor, frontex. as demonstrated by nato's involvement in the aegean to supposedly stop the flows of illegal migrants from turkey to greece, multinational, rigid and bureaucratic mechanisms have no operational effectiveness. the only ones capable of protecting a country's borders by nature and mission are the security forces of that country, and this was demonstrated a short while ago when some countries decided to ignore the schengen treaty and close their borders. unfortunately, in greece, the memorandum governments, in collusion with the eu, did not give the order to the security forces to secure the country's borders, in order to give the impression that a european coast guard-border guard should be created. this methodology is intended to remove sovereignty and responsibilities from the states, such as the responsibility for search and rescue, to which mr abramopoulos referred earlier, and at the same time to support the german government's attempt to create a european army. we in greece know very well how this army will behave. in chios and samos, the germans... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the european border and coast guard marks a new era for europe and shows that in difficult times we can work together effectively and act together, going to the heart of the problem. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the european border and coast guard, operating without interference with the sovereignty of each member state, will be the missing link in the strengthening of europe's external borders. securing the schengen area and our external borders is now a shared responsibility among all the member states of the european union, and part of the solution to the refugee problem, while strengthening our internal security. for greece, the importance of the new european agency is twofold, because greece is, due to its geographical location, the main gateway for refugees and migrants to europe, but also because of its vast coastline which makes control at the external maritime borders particularly difficult. ladies and gentlemen, the strong support for the new service is the essential expression of european solidarity, because let us not forget that even today thousands of refugees are waiting for solidarity to be transferred from greece to other member states, in accordance with european decisions.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the lack of common protection of the union's external borders is one of the most problematic elements in the european architecture. small member states are thus exposed to harassment by other states, such as greece, which is threatened with war by turkey if it exercises its legal right to extend its territorial waters to twelve miles or by occupying their territory, such as cyprus. this implies huge budgetary costs for defence spending, i.e. additional difficulties for national economies to meet the union's objectives. the creation of a european border guard could be a first step in tackling the problem, but for the moment it is limited to immigration control issues. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external borders. the protection of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the member states must be ensured in any case in the context of these procedures.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, both the structure and the specific technical details governing the functioning of this agency reflect, on the one hand, the prevailing view today that europe should be transformed into a fortified fortified area and, on the other hand, the lack of political coherence between the member states of the present european union. it is obvious that the refugee crisis was used as an alibi to make the organisation what it is today. it is more obvious that this organization cannot and should not, in our view, deal with humanitarian crises such as the recent one, for the simple reason that our external borders are not 'besieged' by migrants, as we have heard here, but by refugees from bombed-out and destroyed countries. as long as the current dominant european policy impoverishes the peoples of europe and perpetuates the causes of these crises, institutions like the present cannot be useful or effective in serving the citizens.
the commission madam president, last december some of us had unequivocally denounced the attempt to usurp the sovereignty of the member states through the new european border and coast guard. as the famous article 18 solemnly demonstrates. in fact, the new border and coast guard is trying to legitimize, among other things, the illegal activities of frontex. there are already numerous reports from the aegean islands of roadblocks set up by german and other foreign police of the frontex force, who are identifying residents. this is a flagrant violation of greece's national sovereignty. after the troika turned greece into a debt colony, now they want to turn it into a regular colony. because, after brexit, many colleagues are asking about the mistakes of the european union, the answer is here: the european union systematically underestimates the will of the people, it does not respect national sovereignty, it tries to impose the ultimatums of brussels by political authoritarianism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
s & d) and the madam president, commissioner, in six months we have succeeded in creating the european border and coast guard, and with your important contribution. a dynamic organization which can help the member states, even without their consent, if they are idle, by a special natural majority. the one million refugees who have entered the european union without any substantial control have mobilized our community reflexes for immediate action, even across national barriers. they've invaded schengen, of course. so we've learned something from last year's drama. but have we learned enough? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you remember, the one that has closed the border and trapped 50,000 people in greece and more. we cannot continue after brexit as if nothing had happened. we need a new european government, so as not to push people into hopeless national solutions. we shall be starting this debate in the autumn, but the example we are setting is already very important.
the commission madam president, i would first of all like to suggest to the rapporteur that he should study the correct meaning of the words 'irregular' and 'illegal'. consider this: if someone breaks into your home without your permission, when you call the police, what will you report? that someone entered his home illegally or irregularly? the report is a dangerous undermining of the national sovereignty of a member state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new agency is able to operate in the member states without the consent of the member state concerned. what exactly do you mean by 'management of external borders' when you have been deaf for years to the turkish provocations in the aegean and the occupation of part of cyprus? the illegal, not the illegal possession? in the end, with each report that comes to the vote, it proves how right the brexit supporters were when they cried 'we want our country back'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all the regulations and common policies, especially on illegal immigration and asylum, have proved to be a total failure and have led to more uncontrolled illegal immigration and those responsible for the current situation continue to plan on paper, instead of going home, to rest in peace.
the commission madam president, the security of network and information systems is essential for the functioning of societies and for a reliable environment for trade in services worldwide. however, information systems can often be affected by events such as human error, natural phenomena, or attacks, thus compromising security. of course, this can cause serious economic damage to a company and to the union economy in general. in addition, the frequency of such incidents and the inability to ensure effective protection undermine public confidence in network and information systems and the digital single market. each member state of the union should therefore have in place appropriate mechanisms to prevent, detect and address risks to network and information systems. at the same time, each member state should set up a special group to deal with emergency it needs in order to ensure network security.
the commission madam president, the horizon 2020 programme supports the europe 2020 strategy and aims to boost innovation and research in order to achieve sustainable development in the member states of the union. the european commission has already approved €16 billion of funding for 2016-17, including €1 billion for the modernisation of the european manufacturing industry and €670 million for the circular economy. the programme also aims to improve the regulatory framework for supporting new technologies, to review state subsidies and to finance small and medium-sized enterprises. however, given the high unemployment in some eu member states, and in particular in greece, there is a need to increase funding for innovation, research and development, and to increase public and private investment.
the commission madam president, the proposal to amend regulation 768/2005 on the community fisheries control agency is another insidious attempt to infringe the sovereign rights of the member states of the european union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing methods. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. greece is a sovereign country, its waters are greek and the greeks will continue to protect them, whether brussels wants it or not.
the commission madam president, the creation of the maritime safety agency is yet another attempt by the european union to limit the independence of states and to take away their responsibilities. we see that one of the objectives of this agency is to deal with pollution at sea, whether from ships or from gas installations, and also to deal with large-scale oil spills. i wonder how it is possible for it to carry out this mission when it does not have the means to do so, when it does not have the ships to intervene and monitor. it is also stated that it will work with the coast guard and border guard agency to deal with the dangers arising in the maritime sector, and i wonder what dangers are lurking in europe's seas and by whom? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i have listened very carefully to this debate, because i have to say that we in the czech republic, for example, are very conscious of the independence of olaf. it is not just a theoretical matter, but in the czech republic, for example, the case of deputy prime minister babiš is now being investigated by olaf, as he may have run afoul of the law. and it is important for us that this body be as independent as possible and have the maximum authority so that the czech public subsequently accepts the decision of olaf in the case of deputy prime minister babiš, because this case, a futile effort, will affect and affects political development and political stability in the czech republic. i would therefore like to thank both the rapporteur and the commissioner for their attention to this subject, and i say on behalf of my constituents that this is not just a theoretical question of independence in our country, but a very important practical issue which will have concrete political implications in the czech republic.
the commission madam president, olaf is a crucial service for the european union and therefore it should operate with full transparency. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities. at the same time, olaf, as the european anti-fraud office, should combine transparency with efficiency in the fight against tax evasion. moreover, the total amount of irregularities reported for 2014 amounts to approximately eur 3,24 billion, while the budgetary impact of the irregularities reported is 36% higher than in 2013, which shows that olaf has done nothing to contribute to the crackdown on tax evasion by multinational companies. in addition to the independence of the supervisory committee and its secretariat, it is therefore essential that olaf should play a more active role in combating tax evasion by multinationals and any illegal activity taking place in the european union.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, mr fico, welcome to the european parliament, i will read you a statement: there is no place for islam in slovakia. it's impossible to welcome muslims. does that statement ring a bell? you did it in slovakia. and i ask you: do you insist on this statement ? the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. mr robert kaliňák, your minister of the interior, said that the european quota system for taking in refugees is wrong. do you share that statement? is that how you will work as president of the european union? on 2 october, the hungarian prime minister, mr orbán, called for a referendum to reject the common european policy on refugees. what is your position and your comment ? how will you work with your hungarian colleague until then? the commission has also presented a plan for completing banking integration. with the completion of the third pillar, the pan-european deposit guarantee scheme, which serves european consumers and provides parity and security and a european umbrella, one member state, germany, is undermining and rejecting this proposal. are you with the commission or the german government?
the commission the only thing certain, mr president, is that the slovak presidency will have to face challenges and problems, which the dutch presidency has unfortunately not been able to solve. mr fico, the great problem that is currently plaguing europe, and you know it, is the refugee problem, since the agreement of 18 march with turkey is not being implemented, nor are previous agreements, even between member states, being implemented. you are aware, mr fico, that since september the relocation of 66,400 refugees from greece has been pending. the european union is also taking steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the rights and freedoms that are guaranteed by the european union. the commission is also proposing to amend the dublin rules so that all member states can fairly assume their responsibility towards refugees, so that greece and italy do not become soul-storage centres. there are serious problems you must face.
the commission mr president, unfortunately, mr juncker and the commission have been completely disappointed, not so much by his incompetence as president of the commission, the former, as by his complete lack of self-criticism and responsibility. it would be more honourable, after so many crushing failures, for him to resign, even though he is in favour of his being elected, if it can be considered an election when there is only one candidate. in my country, that's called an appointment, not an election. let me explain my contention in simple words: last year, when mr juncker presented the 2016 programme, he concluded by mentioning as the most important objectives the fight against the crisis, unemployment, the deepening of the monetary union, the establishment of a security climate after the charlie attack, the restoration of stability in the greek economy and a fair agreement with the united kingdom. one year later, there is uncontrolled immigration, unemployment is rising, young people are migrating within greece, businesses are closing and there is control of bank funds. the bloodshed multiplied in paris, brussels and elsewhere as the british voted to leave the european union. mr juncker, you are probably unfit and, in market terms, should have been dismissed.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr timmermans, for his report. this means investment, growth, employment and not perpetual austerity which increases unemployment and poverty. the commission's proposal is to strengthen the social and regional cohesion, rather than to increase inequalities in favour of the powerful. transparency and democratic accountability, not bureaucratic decisions behind closed doors. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. mr timmermans, there is no room for recklessness, procrastination and maintaining the status quo.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, exactly one year ago, mr juncker personally sent greece a disgraceful telegram-ultimatum to choose between the economic and social looting of the third memorandum or the exit from the eurozone. the greek people, however, have not succumbed to your ultimatum or to mr draghi's blackmail with the banks closed. with pride and 62% of the vote, it rejected the blackmail of juncker, draghi, schäuble and today it rejects the syriza government which rejected and reversed the result of the referendum. mr president, you are not the committee on reforms you spoke of yesterday and today. the european union is not a europe of authoritarianism, political blackmail, tax fraud, multinationalism, nationalism and xenophobia, and it is not changing or reforming. you have shown this with the previous referendums, the greek referendum, the british referendum. you are proving this by threatening france, spain and portugal with fines. the people of europe want jobs and rights, and whatever tricks you and your new friends like the greek prime minister try, you will find yourselves in a continuous referendum with the people of europe rejecting you permanently.
the commission mr president, i think that brexit is putting the european union and the european institutions into a new era and this should start to show up more in the commission's work programme for 2017. our british friends are open-minded in economic matters, firmly in favour of market forces, have a global mind and are at the forefront of innovation. we must show all this in our own way in the european union, in order to be more competitive. in a year from now we will see the united kingdom transformed from a strong member state into a strong competitor of the european union. the first moves have already been made, such as the decision by the chancellor of the exchequer, mr osborne, to plan to reduce corporate taxation from 20% to 15%. we need a more flexible, dynamic, efficient and competitive european union in economic matters. otherwise we will lose some of our potential, we will be further behind in competition with the usa and china and, above all, we will not be able to finance the welfare state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. i think they're in a lot of political confusion.
gue/ngl), in writing. the debate on the european commission's programme for 2017 must take as a starting point the objectives proclaimed by the commission itself. the first was to create jobs and promote economic growth, and the european fund for strategic investments was set up to implement it. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new programme for the protection of the environment, the environment and the environment. for example, in greece, which has suffered more than any other member state in the last decade, losing over 25% of its national income and almost a quarter of its jobs, only two programmes have been approved so far and three sme financing agreements have been concluded. the expected result is the creation of only 100 (!) jobs. the fund's financing of these programmes amounts to a tragically inadequate amount of eur 18 million, while at the same time, for example, for belgium, a country with a smaller population than greece but a much stronger economy, the financing already amounts to eur 78 million. the fund's actions and funding criteria therefore need to be redesigned if it is to help those who really need it and not to further exacerbate existing economic inequalities.
in writing. ‒ the this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes. the objective of the protocol is to establish economic and technical rules to enable azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries and i personally voted in favour of this recommendation as i consider it to be a positive step towards rapprochement between the two. the specific terms and conditions for the participation of azerbaijan in each specific programme should be further specified in the procedure for the conclusion of an agreement between the commission and the competent authorities in azerbaijan.
in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes. the deepening of relations between the two sides can certainly have positive effects for the citizens, both economically and socially. i think, however, that we must focus on the protection of human rights and avoid referring exclusively to economic data. as this is not the case in this recommendation, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the the national interests of greece and cyprus are affected by the deepening of eu-azerbaijan relations. the energy agreements are increasing turkey's role and cementing europe's dependence on non-european states. the political situation in azerbaijan and the aggressive actions against the armenians of nagorno-karabakh are events which cannot be ignored and which in no way reflect true european values.
in writing. ‒ the the national interests of greece and cyprus are affected by the deepening of eu-azerbaijan relations. the energy agreements are increasing turkey's role and cementing europe's dependence on non-european states. the political situation in azerbaijan and the aggressive actions against the armenians of nagorno-karabakh are events which cannot be ignored and which in no way reflect true european values. for these reasons, i am voting against the agreement on the participation of azerbaijan in union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the recommendation as i agree with the stance of the rapporteur, norica nicolai. it is through close cooperation and open routes for dialogue that we will manage to achieve sustainable change in the societies of our partners. and by allowing azerbaijan to work closer and interact with the eu, we will benefit the society and the people of azerbaijan.
in writing. ‒ the participation of certain third countries in some eu programmes is part of the european neighbourhood policy. these eu programmes with enp countries have been established in order to deeper cooperation between people and nations on common issues. the report calls for consent to be given to the republic of azerbaijan in eu programmes. however i am afraid that even if it does not concern directly a free trade agreement, that it could be the intermediate step to a future free trade agreement between azerbaijan and the eu. this is why i voted abstention to this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes, because it is comprehensive and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the eu should consider all the parameters affecting relations between the parties concerned before concluding any agreement with a third country. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is not only a political union, but also a political union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for azerbaijan to participate in union programmes. azerbaijan is also an important partner of the eu in energy and we should strengthen this cooperation. the european parliament has rightly insisted on comprehensive cooperation which will promote the rule of law, human rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 and the entry of the surplus for the financial year 2015. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. i think that the existence of surpluses should automatically lead to a strategy of support for the weakest social strata and refugees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we believe that the institutions' handling of the refugee crisis is wrong, because the european citizen and his safety are not a priority.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the council's position on draft amending budget no 2/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: the surplus for the financial year 2015 is to be entered as i consider that the institutions are wrong in their handling of the refugee crisis, since european citizens and their security are not a priority.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report of mr fernandes, as it touches upon a crucial matter. member states should as stated in the report honour their pledges in relation to the refugee crisis and match the union contribution to the two dedicated union trust funds. as an mep of greece i am highly supportive of those initiatives.
in writing. ‒ the usual draft amending budget aims to enter in the following budget the surplus from the previous financial year. given the fact that the adoption of the draft amending budget for the year 2016 will reduce the share of gross national income contributions from member states to the union budget, it is crucial to further encourage member states to use such a reflow for humanitarian purposes. in order to stress this necessity, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: recording the surplus for the financial year 2015, as it is sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the institutions are wrong in their handling of the refugee crisis, because the european citizen and his safety are not a priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: surplus for the financial year 2015. the agreement was supported by a large majority of the political forces in the competent committee of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we adopted the council text at second reading, which had been agreed through tripartite negotiations between the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ we support the recommendation for a second reading to speed up the fight against cybercrime and to establish an international cybersecurity policy at eu level.
in writing. ‒ the the aim of the directive is to ensure a high common level of network and information security. this means improving the security of the internet and of the private networks and information systems that support the functioning of societies and economies. this will be achieved by requiring member states to increase their preparedness, improve cooperation between them, and by requiring operators of critical infrastructure such as energy, transport, and key information society service providers (e-commerce platforms, social networks, etc.), as well as public administrations, to put in place appropriate security risk management measures and to report serious incidents to the competent national authorities. i am voting in favour of the recommendation for second reading with a view to speeding up the fight against cybercrime and establishing an international policy on cybersecurity at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security across the union for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 5 july 2016 and because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the eu should step up the fight against cybercrime and take appropriate action to develop an international cybersecurity policy.
in writing. ‒ i too voted in favour of the recommendation by mr schwab on measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on energy efficiency labelling because it supports the eu's effort to reduce carbon emissions, reduce energy consumption and improve the free movement of products, as there will be no energy labelling by each member state but they will be subject to european labelling.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the establishment of a framework for energy efficiency labelling and the repeal of directive 2010/30/eu. it is clear that this effort can benefit both the economy and the environment, with positive results for europe. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the reducing household energy costs and consumption, combined with reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as well as life-cycle cost, connectivity, repairability, durability, recyclability and environmental performance are objectives to promote the circular economy and are of direct concern to consumers. the exchange of information on planned and completed product testing and the electronic provision of test protocols between member states and supervisory authorities will be a key factor in achieving the union's environmental and climate objectives and in improving the energy performance of products. we therefore vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, in order to reduce the cost of manufacturing products, save energy, protect the environment and produce sustainable and efficient products with the help of specific labels, the internet and a generally harmonised regulatory framework at union level.
in writing. ‒ the reducing household energy costs and consumption, combined with reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as well as life-cycle cost, connectivity, repairability, durability, recyclability and environmental performance are objectives to promote the circular economy and are of direct concern to consumers. the exchange of information on planned and completed product testing and the electronic provision of test protocols between member states and supervisory authorities will be a key factor in achieving the union's environmental and climate objectives and in improving the energy performance of products. i therefore vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, in order to reduce the cost of manufacturing products, save energy, protect the environment and produce sustainable and efficient products with the help of specific labels, the internet and a generally harmonised regulatory framework at union level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of a framework for energy labelling of products as it is in the interest of european consumers.
in writing. ‒ the the abolition of the energy efficiency directive 2010/30/eu and its replacement by a single regulation marks the beginning of the work towards an energy union with a far-reaching environmental policy and has the potential to reverse the adverse climate following the energy scandal in the automotive sector. the upgrading of the scale of energy categories and the creation of a database on energy products can provide citizens with a deeper understanding of the environmental impact of products and their life cycle. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, in agreement with the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the reducing household energy costs and consumption, combined with reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as well as life-cycle cost, connectivity, repairability, durability, recyclability and environmental performance are objectives to promote a circular economy and are of direct concern to consumers. the exchange of information on planned and completed product testing and the electronic provision of test protocols between member states and supervisory authorities will be a key factor in achieving the union's environmental and climate objectives and in improving the energy performance of products. we therefore vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, in order to reduce the cost of manufacturing products, save energy, protect the environment and produce sustainable and efficient products with the help of specific labels, the internet and a generally harmonised regulatory framework at union level.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report by mr tamburrano on the establishment of a framework for energy efficiency labelling and the repeal of directive 2010/30/eu. we need a new, more stringent scale for the labelling of the energy efficiency of household appliances, which will keep pace with technological progress. the setting of stricter requirements will provide incentives for further improvements in energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ the the creation of the european border and coast guard agency is a first step towards the joint management of the external borders. in essence, this regulation recognises that the external borders are common european borders and that efforts are required from all member states to protect them in a context of shared responsibility and solidarity. however, some points in the final agreement raise concerns, such as the possibility of sending border guards to the external borders of a member state, even without its consent. the reference to joint operations of this organisation with neighbouring third countries (non-members of the union) without further specifying the conditions and limits of cooperation, especially when it concerns states that challenge international law, make war threats against member states and seek to redraw borders through misinterpretations of existing international treaties, also raises questions. i therefore chose to abstain from voting on both the european commission's legislative proposal and the final text agreed between the council and the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the report is a dangerous and irrational application of the subversion of national sovereignty. for example, the new agency will intervene at the external national borders of a member state without its consent, and a member state will be obliged to cooperate with the agency if the commission identifies measures to be implemented. all the regulations and common policies, especially on illegal immigration and asylum, have proved to be a dismal failure and have led to more uncontrolled illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report as it is a dangerous and irrational application of the destruction of national sovereignty. for example, the new agency will intervene at the external national borders of a member state without its consent, and a member state will be obliged to cooperate with the agency if the commission identifies measures to be implemented. all the regulations and common policies, especially on illegal immigration and asylum, have proved to be a dismal failure and have led to more uncontrolled illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report of mr pabriks as i find it as one of the key answers to the crisis that the eu is facing. the proposal will enable the three agencies to support national authorities and to act jointly and effectively to help national authorities to carry out monitoring, security and surveillance operations by supplying equipment and training, exchanging of information and providing the necessary coordination of multidimensional operations. this cooperation is essential in the current context of major cross-border migration flows, which call for increased material and human solidarity on the part of the eu.
in writing. ‒ this is a highly controversial report that regards frontex and the setting up of a european border and coast guard agency. the report has great negative aspects as it makes easier the re-establishment of internal borders controls and it enables frontex to access all information of coast guards on irregular migration. on the positive side is the deletion of frontex operating returns from third country to third country, there is compliance with fundamental rights and a mention of search and rescue. despite, the positive points, i have abstained as frontex is not an agency aiming at saving lives.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard and repealing regulation (ec) no 2007/2004, regulation (ec) no 863/2007 and council decision 2005/267/ec, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 5 july 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the report is a dangerous and irrational application of the subversion of national sovereignty. for example, the new agency will intervene at the external national borders of a member state without its consent, and a member state will be obliged to cooperate with the agency if the commission identifies measures to be implemented. all the regulations and common policies, especially on illegal immigration and asylum, have proved to be a dismal failure and have led to more uncontrolled illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ i supported the legislative proposal to create a european border management system consisting of frontex and national border management authorities. the european border and coast guard can help to better and safer manage the eu's external borders. it is essentially the first step towards a unified european response to the current refugee crisis, but also practical help to the member states with the greatest burden.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 to establish a european maritime safety agency covers a number of areas which we must handle carefully. the creation of an agency covering maritime security issues could be a positive step, especially if combined with the protection of refugees, the creation and protection of safe routes for the movement of citizens or the support of member states in managing their borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ any bodies set up within the european union must not restrict sovereign rights or substitute for national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ any bodies set up within the european union must not restrict sovereign rights or substitute for national sovereignty of states and i therefore vote against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency.
in writing. ‒ given the necessity to manage the current refugees crisis, cooperation among eu agencies involved in maritime and coastal control duties needs to be enhanced. however, i chose to vote abstention. i believe that the present proposal lacks a proper legal framework regarding the reinforcement of the frontex agency, now renamed european border and coast guard, mostly due to the absence of provisions related to the limits and obligations towards human rights protection.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 as regards the establishment of a european maritime safety agency, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 5 july 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ any bodies set up within the european union must not restrict sovereign rights or substitute for national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european maritime safety agency and the necessary changes to be made to bring it into line with the new european border and coast guard
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency, as the current system of cooperation is lagging behind and lacks inadequacies and needs immediate improvement.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency contains both positive and negative elements. the renewal and upgrading of the existing rules on fisheries control, the creation of a fisheries control service and the improvement of cooperation between the services involved are positive. i think, however, that we must be careful about improving the conditions of fishermen and the sustainability of fish stocks, which is not achieved by this report. that's why i decided to stay away.
in writing. ‒ any bodies set up within the european union must not restrict sovereign rights or substitute for national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, because this proposal will coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at european level in order to improve the knowledge of the situation at sea and to support coherent and cost-effective actions. the aim of this proposal is to enable the three european organizations dealing with disasters at sea, among other things, to coordinate their operations at sea and to exchange information useful for their activities. the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency should be able to cooperate by pooling their operational capabilities and exchanging surveillance information to enhance protection and safety at sea.
in writing. ‒ the present report seeks to bring the powers and responsibilities of fisheries agencies into line with those dealing with coastguard functions and border control. it promotes a securitarian logic with regard to migration, and does not deal with the real challenges that the fisheries-related operations and the workers are facing. in order to point out this aspect, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 5 july 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals to ensure that the eu's environmental legislation is properly enforced. this is to align tasks between the three eu agencies, but also to better coordinate with national authorities, in order to deter refugees and migrants and to jointly carry out 'multi-purpose' control, security and surveillance operations by providing information, equipment and training. indicatively, the tasks of the 'european fisheries control agency' will include the exchange of information, the provision of surveillance services and the joint use of capabilities, in particular resources, to allow the planning and implementation of multipurpose operations. this redeployment of eu forces, as well as the deepening of its cooperation with nato after the warsaw summit, are part of a wider dangerous plan that has nothing to do with popular interests. that is why the peoples must intensify their struggle to disrupt these plans, breaking the bonds of the imperialist alliances.
in writing. ‒ any bodies set up within the european union must not restrict sovereign rights or substitute for national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the community fisheries control agency and the necessary changes to be made to bring it into line with the new european border and coast guard.
in writing. ‒ the the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals to ensure that the eu's environmental legislation is properly enforced. this is to align tasks between the three eu agencies, but also to better coordinate with national authorities, in order to deter refugees and migrants and to jointly carry out 'multi-purpose' control, security and surveillance operations by providing information, equipment and training. indicatively, the tasks of the 'european fisheries control agency' will include the exchange of information, the provision of surveillance services and the joint use of capabilities, in particular resources, to allow the planning and implementation of multipurpose operations. this redeployment of eu forces, as well as the deepening of its cooperation with nato after the warsaw summit, are part of a wider dangerous plan that has nothing to do with popular interests. that is why the peoples must intensify their struggle to disrupt these plans, breaking the bonds of the imperialist alliances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 as regards the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf), as i consider it necessary to develop more effective cooperation relations between olaf and the supervisory board.
in writing. ‒ the report on the amendment of regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 as regards the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is a positive step towards improving efforts to protect europeans from infringements. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the this proposal, under article 325 of the treaty, aims to correct a specific weakness in the olaf regulation and is therefore limited in scope. under the new proposed regulation, the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be provided by the commission and no longer by olaf. the budget appropriations for the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be transferred from the budget line and staff establishment plan of olaf to that of the commission. we reject the report because the proposed amendment will have no financial impact on the eu budget and, moreover, the staff of the secretariat will continue to be subject to the same rules on confidentiality.
in writing. ‒ the this proposal, under article 325 of the treaty, aims to correct a specific weakness in the olaf regulation and is therefore limited in scope. under the new proposed regulation, the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be provided by the commission and no longer by olaf. the budget appropriations for the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be transferred from the budget line and staff establishment plan of olaf to that of the commission. i am voting against the report as the proposed amendment will have no financial impact on the eu budget and, moreover, the staff of the secretariat will continue to be subject to the same rules on confidentiality.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the particular proposal as it is aiming to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat, thus providing for a more effective functioning of the supervisory committee. in the past the european parliament called several times on the commission to take measures to reinforce the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat, for example in its report on the discharge procedure for 2013 or in its resolution on the olaf supervisory committee’s annual report 2014, and finally this seems to be a step to the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to amend the regulation regarding the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the report has some improvements regarding the independence of the secretariat with the olaf committee. the fact that the secretariat no longer has a mandate to monitor olaf’s activity, serves as a guarantee for the transparency and independence of the secretariat. i voted in favour of this report, since it contains good improvements.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 on the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 5 july 2016 and because the report is well substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the this proposal, under article 325 of the treaty, aims to correct a specific weakness in the olaf regulation and is therefore limited in scope. under the new proposed regulation, the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be provided by the commission and no longer by olaf. the budget appropriations for the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be transferred from the budget line and staff establishment plan of olaf to that of the commission. we reject the report because the proposed amendment will have no financial impact on the eu budget and, moreover, the secretariat staff will continue to be subject to the same rules on confidentiality.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 883/2013 as regards the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf), as the objective of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of olaf so that this committee can function more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the preparation of the post-cycle review of the mff 2014-2020: the contribution of parliament to the commission's proposal, because i consider it necessary to revise the current mff, given that the european union must deal effectively with the crisis and fulfil its political objectives and obligations.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) and that the commission should be given the task of developing a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah). i believe that the need to diversify the union's strategy for allocating resources, with a view to a better and fairer functioning, has become particularly apparent in recent years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's why i decided to stay away.
in writing. ‒ the mff lacks the flexibility to adapt to emerging threats and extreme situations. just two years after its adoption, the budget has reached its limits, thus proving its inability to deal with the existing crises that have erupted in europe, such as illegal immigration, terrorism, brexit, economic recession, unemployment. it doesn't need to be revised, it needs to be repealed.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because the imp does not have the flexibility to adapt to emerging threats and extreme situations. just two years after its adoption, the budget has reached its limits, thus proving its inability to deal with the existing crises that have erupted in europe, such as illegal immigration, terrorism, brexit, economic recession, unemployment. it doesn't need to be revised, it needs to be repealed.
in writing. ‒ the the financing of the union's key priorities is of course lacking, especially as regards key pillars of development such as research, innovation and the sustainable economy. but we certainly need a balanced approach given new funding opportunities in new regional projects which should not be rejected or delayed. in addition, the element of mandatory needs for the creation of infrastructure that have been found to be missing by the union to address humanitarian needs, especially in the periphery of the union, should also be included in the funding priorities.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to guide the commission in drawing up its proposal on the revision of the 2014-2020 mff. i support the increase in the mff ceilings for this period as well as the better clarification of the legal framework. however, there is no statement to the effect that the nature of some eu policies and strategies has a detrimental impact on the eu countries, and the reference to the migration/refugee crisis has not been properly addressed. for these reasons i abstained in the vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the report on the preparation of the post-accession review of the mff 2014-2020: the position of parliament on the commission proposal, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 5 july 2016, and because the report in question is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the mff lacks the flexibility to adapt to emerging threats and extreme situations. just two years after its adoption, the budget has reached its limits, thus proving its inability to deal with the existing crises that have erupted in europe, such as illegal immigration, terrorism, brexit, economic recession, unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect, because it deals with and explores a number of issues such as tax havens, the role of intermediaries, banks and tax advisers, and various harmful tax measures.
in writing. ‒ the debate on the report on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect is particularly important and can have important effects on european society. the report had a number of positive elements and is directly related to the unfair practices followed by multinational companies. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the member states should be able to decide for themselves on the regulations surrounding their taxation and financial sector. the report will be the death knell for the banking sector in many member states, including cyprus, and will also be an obstacle to the development of economic and trade relations between the member states and russia. it will also make it more difficult for russian capital to flow into the eu. tax evasion and tax avoidance are symptoms of the disease called the single market. the economic, commercial and financial link between states which differ in their economic structure, standard of living, taxation, vat and wage levels is likely to create gaps which will be filled by states with a developed financial sector. it would also be appropriate to start taxing elected and non-elected officials and eu officials properly and then start the ethics courses.
in writing. ‒ the the member states should be able to decide for themselves on the regulations surrounding their taxation and financial sector. the report will be the death knell for the banking sector in many member states, including cyprus, and will also be an obstacle to the development of economic and trade relations between the member states and russia. it will further hamper the flow of russian capital into the eu. tax evasion and tax avoidance are symptoms of the disease called the single market. the economic, commercial and financial link between states which differ in their economic structure, standard of living, taxation, vat and wage levels is likely to create gaps which will be filled by states with a developed financial sector. it would also be appropriate to start taxing elected and non-elected officials and eu officials properly and then start the ethics courses.
in writing. ‒ the it is another important intervention by the european parliament in the adoption of this report in the context of a decisive and productive debate to tackle the fundamental problems of tax evasion and tax avoidance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must therefore pay attention to the work of the code of conduct group and to the need for the commission to highlight the non-cooperative behaviour of the member states in the logic of creating a harmonized common market in tax and budgetary matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the content of the report on tax rulings is particularly important and can have important effects on european society. the report contained a number of positive elements and of course it is directly related to the unfair tax and other practices of multinational companies.
in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on 'tax rulings' and other measures of a similar nature or effect, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 5 july 2016 and because the report in question is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the the member states should be able to decide for themselves on the regulations surrounding their taxation and financial sector. the report will be the death knell for the banking sector in many member states, including cyprus, and will also be an obstacle to the development of economic and trade relations between the member states and russia. it will also make it more difficult for russian capital to flow into the eu. tax evasion and tax avoidance are symptoms of the disease called the single market. the economic, commercial and financial link between states which differ in their economic structure, standard of living, taxation, vat and wage levels is likely to create gaps which will be filled by states with a developed financial sector. it would also be appropriate to start taxing elected and non-elected officials and eu officials properly and then start the ethics courses.
in writing. ‒ we discussed the motion for a resolution on synergies between the structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme. it is clear that there is a positive element in this debate, as improving the functioning and action of the structural funds could provide additional support to the european economy as a whole. but since i do not think that enough attention is being paid to the need to strengthen the economies further with new instruments, i have decided to withdraw.
in writing. ‒ structural and investment funds, although providing a lot of money, do not really focus on creating permanent jobs, but rather promote temporary solutions and half-measures such as flexible forms of employment, and have a key objective of absorbing resources with beneficiaries being specific companies and ngos. we are opposed to the motion for a resolution, although it contains a number of positive elements, such as the transparency of financial instruments and grants and their balance, as it supports synergies for innovation which serve as a pretext to overlook well-documented and often recurring implementation problems which concern many member states.
in writing. ‒ structural and investment funds, although providing a lot of money, do not really focus on creating permanent jobs, but rather promote temporary solutions and half-measures such as flexible forms of employment, and have a key objective of absorbing resources with beneficiaries being specific companies and ngos. i am opposed to the motion for a resolution in this respect, although it does contain a number of positive elements such as the transparency of financial instruments and grants and their balance, as it supports synergies for innovation which serve as a pretext to overlook well-documented and often recurring implementation problems which concern many member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the particular file as it is to our utmost benefit to promote cooperation in synergies for best results. innovation is one of those fields where more is better, and the synergies between structural funds and h2020 seems like a decision that should have been implemented already. allocating funds, having in mind the forward looking orientation of h2020, will benefit our citizens in the long, medium and short run.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain from voting on the motion for a resolution on the synergies between the structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme. obviously, apart from any positive elements such as the improvement in the functioning and action of the structural funds which could indeed provide additional support to the european economy as a whole, i believe that not enough attention is being paid to the need for further strengthening of the economies, even through new instruments.
in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the joint motion for a resolution on synergies for innovation: the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and other european innovation funds and eu programmes, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 5 july 2016, and because this joint motion for a resolution is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ structural and investment funds, although providing a lot of money, do not really focus on creating permanent jobs, but rather promote temporary solutions and half-measures, such as flexible forms of employment, and have a key objective of absorbing resources with beneficiaries being specific companies and ngos. we are opposed to the motion for a resolution, although it contains many positive elements such as the transparency of financial instruments and grants and their balance, as well as support for synergies for innovation which serve as a pretext to overlook well-documented and often recurring implementation problems which concern many member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the synergies between the structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme. it is necessary to further enhance synergies with other policies and other mechanisms in order to maximise the impact of investments.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the preparation of the european commission's work programme for 2017. it is a given that european citizens continue to suffocate under the weight of austerity policies which have so far done so little for the member states and for europe as a whole. i believe that a change of course is urgently needed, with radical changes in the mindset and strategy of the european union. unfortunately, even today we see the same practices being maintained, as reflected in the 2017 programme. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the the commission's 2017 preparation programme is another sign that the eu is moving towards political integration. the strengthening of the failed economic and monetary union, immigration policy, security policy and asylum policy show that the eu leadership is not indifferent to the concerns of the peoples of europe and that it is trying to destroy the national sovereignty of the member states. it is now clear that the eu's objectives are against the interests of the nation states and the europeans.
in writing. ‒ the the commission's 2017 preparation programme is another sign that the eu is moving towards political integration. the strengthening of the failed economic and monetary union, immigration policy, security policy and asylum policy show that the eu leadership is not indifferent to the concerns of the peoples of europe and that it is trying to destroy the national sovereignty of the member states. it is now clear that the eu's objectives are against the interests of nation states and europeans for that reason and i do not support the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2017.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution regarding the commission’s work programme for 2017, as it will push the eu to maintain its focus and resources on the current priorities and crises we have been facing. creating growth and employment while protecting our social rights is only one of them. additionally the creation of a pan-european fair tax regime and the establishment of fair-trade agreements should be part of the priorities. lastly, but most importantly the management of the refugee and migration crisis along with the security of the eu people is, by definition, substantial for the coming year.
in writing. ‒ the preparation of the commission work programme contains some guidelines that the european parliament is drafting in order to give its opinion on the future work that the commission will have to undertake. some elements like the statement that the european union has to work together to find a common solution to the refugees crisis or calling on the commission to propose more measures to foster research and development, innovation, cultural diversity are positive. however i regret the fact that none of our amendments, like the one rejecting ttip, or keeping in mind that in order to overcome eu crisis we need a new eu framework, did not pass. despite the positive points of this report, i voted against since the eu guidelines do not give a new strategy to the commission.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution on the strategic priorities for the commission's work programme for 2017, because this joint motion for a resolution is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the commission's 2017 preparation programme is another sign that the eu is moving towards political integration. the strengthening of the failed economic and monetary union, immigration policy, security policy and asylum policy show that the eu leadership is not indifferent to the concerns of the peoples of europe and that it is trying to destroy the national sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which refers to japan's decision to resume whaling in 2015-16. japan must stop whaling in accordance with the ruling of the international court of justice in the hague on march 31, 2014, as it threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ the vote on japan's decision to resume whaling in 2015-16 is a very important issue and a positive step by europe for the environment. i believe that such efforts should be met with a response, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. end unjustified 'whaling for scientific purposes' and support the designation of large areas of oceans and seas as sanctuaries where all forms of whaling will be banned indefinitely
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. the unjustified 'whaling for scientific purposes' must be stopped and support for the designation of large areas of oceans and seas as sanctuaries where all forms of whaling will be banned indefinitely.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on japan's decision to resume whaling in 2015-16, which was also co-signed by the group of the party of european socialists. parliament regretted that japan had not yet reconsidered its decision despite the diplomatic process and widespread international protests; it urged the eu and its member states to make every effort to resolve the matter through political dialogue and through the weu.
in writing. ‒ the joint motion for a resolution expresses strong disapproval of japan's decision to resume whaling in 2015-2016 and makes a strong call for the country to immediately cease all whaling activities. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal, which is an important step towards putting an end to unjustified whaling for purportedly scientific purposes.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on japan's decision to resume whaling in 2015-2016 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 6 june 2016 and because the motion is complete and well-founded.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the unjustified 'whaling for scientific purposes' must be stopped and support for the designation of large areas of oceans and seas as sanctuaries where all forms of whaling will be banned indefinitely.
in writing. ‒ the objection under article 105 (4) to the granting of an eu guarantee to the european investment bank to cover losses in respect of belarus was an effort by conservative groups who continue to believe that imposing austerity measures on citizens is an effective measure of compliance by states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we disagree in principle with the practice of the eu funding third countries with some of the instruments it has. selective sensitivity to human rights violations can only serve political expediencies serving the interests of specific member states, but also of transatlantic partners.
in writing. ‒ i disagree in principle with the practice of the eu funding third countries with some of the instruments it has. however, my vote is against it because selective sensitivity to human rights violations can only serve political purposes that serve the interests of particular member states and of transatlantic 'partners'.
in writing. ‒ on 15 february 2016 the council decided to ease the restrictive measures against belarus. the aim is to let belarus benefit from loans of the european investment bank. since i am of the opinion that we should grant belarus access to loans, i voted against this objection of rule.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the motion for a resolution on the commission delegated decision of 15 april 2016 amending annex iii to decision no 466/2014/eu of the european parliament and of the council granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financing activities supporting investment projects outside the union, as regards belarus, as it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ selective sensitivity to human rights violations can only serve political expediencies that serve the interests of specific member states, but also of transatlantic partners
in writing. ‒ the the vote on the objection to the setting of the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities is a technical but not a trivial matter. the objection essentially objects to regulatory standards that specify the criteria for setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities and asks the commission to take into account the assessment of whether the burden-sharing requirements as set out in article 44 (5) of directive 2014/59/eu (under which shareholders and creditors must contribute to loss absorption and recapitalisation in an amount corresponding to at least 8% of total liabilities including own funds) could be met in order to ensure consistency with the directive and provide legal certainty. the committee also calls for the 48-month limit for the transitional period to be retained in the regulation. i think that these proposals are in the right context and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the arrangements for the minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities are theoretically correct. these, however, must be regulated by national regulatory authorities to the extent of the needs of the member states in order to be able to act in the particular circumstances of each country.
in writing. ‒ while the rules on minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities are theoretically correct, i will oppose the objection, as they should be regulated by national regulators to the extent of the needs of the member states in order to be able to act in the specific circumstances of each country.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 23 may 2016 supplementing directive 2014/59/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria on the methodology for setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities, because it is comprehensive and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the arrangements for the minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities are theoretically correct. however, they must be established by national regulatory authorities to meet the needs of the member states in order to be able to act in the particular circumstances of each country.
the commission mr president, the foreign policy of each member state serves its national interest, both bilaterally and in the integrated global environment. it is achieved by classic diplomacy, participation in international organizations, even by a show of force or financial support. but within the union, there are ambiguities and errors in many points of the treaty relating to the common foreign policy. first of all, let us make it clear that the union's defence policy is not being properly provided for by nato and that a common security and defence policy is not being properly designed in accordance with nato's interests. for the union's global strategy, the provisions of articles 21 and 22 of the treaty are sufficient and currently feasible. projects other than those provided for in the above articles will become unmanageable, both in terms of providing troops and logistical and financial support. finally, i would remind some colleagues who have shown a punitive and isolationist attitude towards the united kingdom after brexit, with pseudo-leonardism, excessive snobbery and even a ban on talks with british officials, that they should lower their tone, especially on foreign and security policy. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, i would say that it is not. i believe that we must have proper education, so that in all schools children learn that they must love their country and, since we are in the european union, the european union.
the commission the new global strategy which the european union is drawing up, in the midst of bitter contradictions, is aimed at increasing its military involvement in imperialist wars in the interests of european monopoly groups. on this basis, your once strategic business partners, such as russia, are now transformed from strategic partners into a strategic challenge. so leave the pretenses to the refugees and the traffickers. the third phase of your operation "sofia" and with the partnership of nato, is none other than your new intervention in libya. the strengthening of cooperation between the european union and nato, despite the competition triggered by brexit, is a threat to the peoples. the nato summit in warsaw and the new strategy of the european union are the harbinger of new imperialist wars that will massacre the peoples. only the people who take power can free themselves from the heavy chains of the european union and nato and prosper. and a word about the golden dawn: the european union is a great example of a great european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
the commission the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the international negotiations on the future of the european union. firstly, after brexit, the uk will only contribute to defence and security issues through nato and we may be left unprotected on issues of major european importance. secondly, with the us covering almost three quarters of nato's total defence expenditure, it is clear that european countries must make, and we must make, greater commitments. there's no such thing as a free defense. thirdly, previous interventions, such as the invasion of iraq by british troops, which is now the subject of research, were carried out without a global or european vision and ended in political failure and the creation of an endless stream of refugees and migrants, which is what is causing the problems we are discussing. fourthly, the enlargement of the european union to include central and eastern europe, the baltic states and the scandinavian countries is provoking a negative reaction in russia. we do not want to be in opposition to the latter, but we do not want to give it any appetite either, because we lack a common european policy on foreign affairs, security and defence. the european union must also be able to take action to combat terrorism, and this is the first step towards the creation of a european security area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we must therefore proceed in a more ambitious way than we are discussing.
the commission the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. but i saw no solidarity with greece, which is perhaps the only country in the union facing immediate geopolitical threats in the surrounding area. this is something that the institutions of the european union systematically refuse to acknowledge and take into account. the violent dismemberment of the former yugoslavia has fostered a redemptive megalomania in the balkan region, from which some states have not yet recovered. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the same is true on the other side of the aegean, where turkish provocations are constantly intensifying. the european union must not be a backbencher in the face of turkish bargaining and give visas to the kosovars, but instead act consistently and responsibly.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the middle east is on fire and you are negotiating peace with a state, israel, which does not even declare its borders, because it simply moves them wherever and whenever it wants, disregarding both your initiatives and your institutional role. just the other day you saw him announce new settlements, contrary to what you were telling us a moment ago. look at the map, please, to see what's left of palestine. i believe you know in advance the results if you continue the same policy. israel will continue its same behavior and in the future, its same quiet behavior. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the only way for the european union to step up its intervention, and to do so immediately, is to impose at least the sanctions already provided for in the agreements because of the policy pursued by israel.
the commission mr president, mrs mogherini, the european union must firmly support the middle east peace process in order to finally recognise the creation of an independent palestinian state. we must also put an end to illegal israeli settlements. we must not forget that the west's responsibility for the explosive situation in the middle east is enormous. western interventions in iraq and afghanistan have brought the region to chaos. without france's adventurous policy in libya, we would not be talking about the invasion of islamism in africa, nor about the thousands of migrants in lampedusa. without the west's support for the islamists who are acting against assad in syria, we would not be talking about the islamic state today, and without the political appeasement towards turkey, islamism could have been effectively countered. the european union must therefore act decisively, rather than tolerate the islamist games of turkey and saudi arabia in the region.
the commission madam president, the european union's report on its initiative to end the israeli-palestinian crisis has many positive elements. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the problem, as you know, has existed for many decades and whatever intervention by any third party will not end unless both parties first realize that it is in their interest to end the conflict and to have an independent palestinian state. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. in other words, he should not take sides with either side but try to mediate. it has great potential to make a major contribution to solving the problem. but it must also have the courage to apply pressure in both directions, because they are financed by the european union and there is an association agreement with israel. the european union is not, unfortunately, as determined as it should be.
the commission madam president, over the last 10 years, china has made impressive progress in all areas and it is therefore logical that the european union has upgraded its relationship with it. but in relationships, we must not only win, but also be careful not to lose. we want, on the one hand, to open up china's markets to european companies and to have investment, but on the other hand we have to deal with the flood of cheap and of questionable quality chinese products flooding european markets and creating conditions of unfair competition for european industrialists and industrial workers. we must not destroy european industry to make china a superpower, creating millions of unemployed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must also ensure that this relationship is also applied to the steel sector, which is being imported very cheaply into the european union because of overproduction. we must also not give china market economy status without first having the necessary negotiations.
the commission madam president, the member states of the union should seize the historic opportunity that is before them and in the coming years they should strengthen economic ties with china and contribute to the creation of a fairer global division of labour, together with the forces of brics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has also taken steps to protect not only european smes but also the european steel industry against dumping and unfair chinese trade practices. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the commission has also been asked to take a number of measures to ensure that the chinese market is not undermined by the outsourcing of european multinationals, which is leading to an increase in european unemployment.
the commission the european union is a global institution, and it is not just a political institution, but a political one. even on brexit, only accusations and calamities are heard and no discussion of your wrong policies behind closed doors. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. hundreds of millions of european taxpayers' money are pouring into the pockets of the collaborative dictatorships of sub-saharan africa every year. the catastrophes in yugoslavia, libya and syria and the union-sponsored coup in ukraine, which led to civil war, are the result of your cultural colonialism. but you are deaf and deaf to human rights violations and persecution within the union. the european tower of babel has started to shake and will soon collapse. let third countries develop on their own. where you intervene as rescuers, unfortunately, only wreckage and dead are left.
the commission mr president, in 2015, the european union adopted its new human rights action plan, setting out its priorities for the next five years, aimed at promoting human rights and democracy worldwide. the european economy is currently in a period of crisis, the consequences of which, combined with the austerity measures imposed by the troika on certain member states of the union, are having a negative impact on the human rights and living conditions of european citizens. the increasing rates of poverty and unemployment, precarious working conditions and the increase in social inequalities in the countries of the european union are having a negative impact on the well-being of its citizens. the european union must therefore stop imposing merkel's austerity measures, which massively and constantly violate the rights of european citizens themselves. the european union must therefore, before it can launch a campaign to protect human rights around the world, stop violating the human rights of european citizens.
the next item is the joint debate on: report by andrey kovatchev, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly (2016/2020) (a8-0146/2016)
the commission mr president, on the occasion of the 71st session of the un general assembly, the fight against terrorism, the refugee crisis, poverty and unemployment and the cancellation of the debts of developing countries and of the memorandum countries of the european union must be priorities for action by the un. the elimination of terrorism, however, is still the issue as daesh continues to threaten international security. in the field of refugees, action is needed to support the un refugee camps in jordan and lebanon, as well as action to support greece, in order to launch the process of relocating refugees to other member states of the european union and the rest of the world immediately. refugees by the thousands are trapped in my homeland. moreover, since the world is filled with armies of poor and unemployed people, last year's un general assembly resolution on the cancellation of the humiliating debt of not only developing countries but also countries of the european periphery that have been put in memoranda, such as greece, must be implemented.
i would like to thank mrs mogherini, and i note that speakers from a wide political spectrum have made positive comments on your work in the last two debates on behalf of the commission, as well as on the work of mr lambrinidis, a former colleague and former vice-president of the european parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7 july 2016. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on: protection of staff reporting irregularities [2016/2806 ((rsp)) ]
the commission mr president, whistleblowers are not adequately protected in europe. nevertheless, these complaints have proved useful in the critical period we are living in. the luxleaks scandal, the borjans and lagarde lists and, of course, the names of prominent businessmen and politicians, which came to light with the panama papers, have shown that individuals and multinational companies make extra profits by avoiding taxation in the countries where they operate, and unfortunately, mr katainen, this information has not been put to good use, because the european authorities are also hampering things. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the ttip and the secret diplomacy pursued by the commission. after the leak of the classified documents, the commission was forced to change course. the introduction of whistleblower protection in the public interest is certain to bring to light other similar breaches of legality within the european union. it is therefore in the interests of european citizens to strengthen the framework for the protection of these people.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat corruption, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. it was, is and unfortunately still is at all levels of government, business, organizations and multinationals. but while this is a public secret and corruption often harms the interests of the state, few have the courage to report acts of corruption, and that is because no one protects them. these people are often the targets of reprisals and sometimes criminal prosecutions. these people are not only moral, they are not only brave, they are not only commendable, they are the guardians of the public and social interest. that's exactly why we need to protect them. the european union must establish rules to protect whistleblowers, otherwise why should anyone think that the eu leadership does not have the courage to fight corruption.
the commission mr president, in the context of the revision of the standardised approaches to credit risk, the basel committee on banking supervision has already consulted on capital requirements for the various credit risks. however, this revision may lead to an increase in capital requirements, with the consequent risk that banks' ability to lend to the real economy, and in particular to smes, which are the backbone of the european economy, as the european central bank has pointed out, may be negatively affected. an increase in total capital can pose risks to european banks and to the stability of the banking system in general. therefore, and given the existing financial instability, the commission should ensure that any possible increase in capital requirements does not have negative consequences and does not affect the lending capacity of banks, which must provide liquidity with the aim of always promoting growth and job creation. finally, a more accurate assessment of risks should be made in order to avoid any instability in the financial sector.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. i have also personally expressed my support for the clear and distinctive labelling of all products so that the consumer can know what is on his plate. i therefore support the same effort for so-called energy products, such as various stimulants and caffeinated drinks, which are consumed in large numbers by children and adolescents. it is not possible, on the one hand, to restrict the consumption of traditional foods that have fed our societies for centuries, supposedly for reasons of food safety, and on the other hand to take no protection for the consumption of controversial products of biochemical innovation. finally, strict restrictions must be imposed on the quality standards of food products on the market, and efforts must be made at union level to encourage the consumption of traditional natural products with proven health benefits, such as virgin olive oil.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to thank helga stevens for this report and congratulate all the committees of the european parliament on their contributions. the european parliament thus becomes the leader in implementing the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. we are also demonstrating what work we can do and why the role of the european parliament in the implementation of the convention needs to be enhanced. the convention is a groundbreaking document. however, it may remain on paper if it is not fully implemented. and that's where the trouble starts. while this is the first time that the european union has signed an international convention as a transnational entity, it is unfortunately not a pioneer when it comes to the implementation of the convention on the disabled. the commission is playing hide and seek. while it raises its hands in the air and refers to the member states for the implementation of the un convention, it is combative on other issues, for example when it is about to submit tough budgetary measures. he's declared incompetent for the contract. i am very much in favour of the right of disabled people to be excluded from a common european policy, and i am convinced that this must be the driving force behind the formulation of this common policy. i call on the commission, in this very sensitive area, to stop hiding behind the institutional shortcomings of the european union. to take new legislative initiatives to ensure the universal and uniform application of the convention in all member states. the implementation of the convention is a 100% political matter. if the european union is to become a real union, it must not hesitate to implement it fully, even if it requires changes to the treaties, new legislation and new sources of funding.
the commission mr president, this report succeeds in bringing to the fore the many and important problems faced by disabled people. i congratulate the author on her work in this area. unfortunately, however, not all disabled people in the european union enjoy the same rights and the situation is not the same in all the countries of the union. the most negative example is, unfortunately, my country, greece, in this area, especially after the outbreak of the economic crisis for which the union is not without responsibility. the smes were not exempted from the memorandum obligations and financial cuts. the reduction of disability pensions, the abolition of tax breaks, the deliberate reductions in disability rates by committees, the difficulty of accessing high-cost medicines and access to the national health system, the lack of qualified teaching staff, the under-functioning of educational institutions, the reduction of wages and pensions of parents with disabled children, have brought these individuals and their families to despair. the biggest victims of the economic crisis are the disabled in greece. the report would be more complete with a strong recommendation to the governments and lenders of the memorandum to exclude the smes from economic policies which impoverish them and lead them to poverty.
the commission i would like to congratulate mrs stevens on her excellent speech. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities aims to combat discrimination and social racism against persons with disabilities. in europe there are currently 80 million disabled people, of whom about 46 million are women and girls. at the same time, the participation and access of people with disabilities to the labour market is particularly problematic, as only around 48% of them are in employment and only 27.8% have completed tertiary education. in addition, in countries such as greece, the troika has greatly reduced disability pensions, leading to further social exclusion and lower living standards for people with disabilities. it is therefore necessary for the european union to take the lead in respecting and promoting the human rights of people with disabilities, to put an end to austerity policies that undermine their rights, and to justify the hundreds of complaints we have received from the committee on petitions of the european parliament.
the commission mr president, disabled people are the most vulnerable and often the most neglected and unfair group in any society, especially in greece, which is suffering from the consequences of the memoranda. despite its rhetoric on human rights, the european union is not pressing its lenders to exempt funds for disabled people from austerity measures. with few exceptions, disabled persons are sensitive, good-natured, and loving to all others, and they are saddened that we who are handicapped do not care for them as much as we can and should. so first as people and then as citizens we have to push the state to take care of people with disabilities, to make sure they are integrated into society, to educate them, to find them jobs and to give them the opportunity to develop their skills to thrive. moreover, these individuals need our support. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the disabled are not left behind, and that the disabled are not left behind. no one can know what will happen to us, who are handicapped, the next moment.
the commission madam president, africa is one of the continents where some of the most extreme forms of racism and human rights violations are taking place. one such case is the persecution of people with albinism in various african countries, especially malawi. as you know very well, these unfortunate people are abused, attacked, socially excluded, mutilated, raped, prejudiced and murdered. because i am opposed to any discrimination based on race, sex, colour or peculiarities, i condemn in the strongest terms this racist attitude of the african governments, and especially the malawian government, towards people with albinism. it is not acceptable for african governments, which protest racism against africans, to behave in a way that they deny others to behave. i am also concerned that among the hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who have flooded greece and italy, there are people with such extreme and dangerous tendencies.
the commission madam president, i support the joint resolution, which i have also co-signed. discrimination against people suffering from whitishness and the violation of their rights are common in many african countries, especially malawi, which is one of the poorest and least developed countries in the world, with 50.7% of the population living below the poverty line. according to malawian police, at least 65 cases of violence against people with leukopathy were recorded in 2014, of which 18 people were killed, and incidents of illegal trade in bones and body parts of these people are very common. in the face of the ever-increasing suppression of human rights in malawi, the european union should take immediate action to protect people suffering from white disease and condemn the killings and exploitation of these people. in addition, it should support equal access for such persons to health care, education, as well as social and legal protection.
for the ppe group. madam president, i am supporting the motion for a resolution on behalf of our group. unfortunately, we have been dealing with bahrain repeatedly here, and as the authors of the resolution have said, the human rights situation is not improving. we are dealing with a news flash at this moment, where nabil rajab was charged again in june, imprisoned, his health is deteriorating, and we all know that he was imprisoned only because he exercised his fundamental right, the right to free speech. he expressed his thoughts and opinions on twitter. that's why he's in prison. i do not dispute the words of some colleagues that things are developing in bahrain and the situation may be improving, but it is certainly not improving the human rights situation in the country. it's the same, opposition is locked up, people who express their views are harassed, at best they are stripped of their citizenship. for your information, 300 bahrainis have lost their citizenship in this country and have become more or less people without political affiliation. this resolution is needed and the high commissioner needs to be active on this issue.
the commission madam president, i support the joint resolution which i have co-signed. the human rights situation in bahrain has not only not improved as promised by the bahraini authorities since 2011, but in 2015 the country's courts handed down seven death sentences, while the use of repressive measures by the authorities against activists and peaceful protests has increased. in particular, the general secretary of the opposition party was sentenced to four years in prison for his participation in protests in the context of the arab spring uprisings. in response to the human rights violations in bahrain, the european union should take immediate action to stop all unlawful arrests of activists and protesters and all inhuman and degrading treatment of detainees. bahrain should finally comply with its obligations under the un convention against torture and stop indulging the jihadists of daesh.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. human rights violations in myanmar are common, with persecution and violence against the rohingya minority steadily escalating. the destruction of rohingya property and places of worship, mass arrests, arbitrary imprisonment and restrictions on free movement are characteristic of the myanmar authorities' treatment of this minority. over 130,000 displaced rohingya remain in camps in other areas, while the myanmar authorities have made humanitarian access to the areas inadequate. meanwhile, an estimated 10,000 rohingya have fled by sea to escape persecution and 1,700 are being held in appalling conditions in refugee detention centres. it is therefore necessary for the myanmar authorities to allow humanitarian aid to enter all parts of the country and for the european union to act immediately to support the rights of the rohingya.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly contains some positive elements which contribute to wider cooperation between states. but as i do not welcome references to military intervention, i have decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the the eu is cut off and wants to contribute to the resolution of conflicts and crises in syria, libya, yemen, western sahara, ukraine, moldova, georgia, somalia, sudan, south sudan, mali, etc., but does not consider the cyprus issue to be an issue to be raised at the 71st summit. it is worth noting that the crises and conflicts in several of the above countries are the product of the policies of specific member states. the eu is also showing the need to get involved in matters concerning russia and third countries, without having any competence to do so. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region, and to help the countries of the region to help themselves.
in writing. ‒ the the eu is concerned and wants to contribute to the resolution of conflicts and crises in syria, libya, yemen, western sahara, ukraine, moldova, georgia, somalia, sudan, south sudan, mali, etc., but does not consider the cyprus issue to be an issue to be raised at the 71st summit. it is worth noting that the crises and conflicts in several of the above countries are the product of the policies of specific member states. the eu is also showing the need to get involved in matters concerning russia and third countries, without having any competence to do so. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is true that cooperation is needed in the field of security and terrorism, but i believe that the eu's interventionist approach will only intensify rather than resolve the various crises, and that is why i am voting against the report containing the european parliament's recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly.
in writing. – i voted the report of mr kovatchev as he very keenly recognises the need to have a presence in the un that will reflect the eu’s points of view on the major global challenges. armed conflicts, the migration crisis, the financial crisis, the non-proliferation of nuclear and weapons of mass destruction and a number of ongoing challenges are directly addressed in the report.
in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report containing the proposal for a recommendation of the european parliament to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 6 july 2016, and because the report in question is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the the eu is concerned and wants to contribute to the resolution of conflicts and crises in syria, libya, yemen, western sahara, ukraine, moldova, georgia, somalia, sudan, south sudan, mali, etc., but does not consider the cyprus issue to be an issue to be raised at the 71st summit. it is worth noting that the crises and conflicts in several of the above countries are the product of the policies of specific member states. the eu is also showing the need to get involved in matters concerning russia and third countries, without having any competence to do so. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region, and to help the countries of the region to help themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr kovatchev, a member of the committee on foreign affairs, which sets out a comprehensive framework for peace and security, the fight against terrorism, human rights and the rule of law, democracy, migration, development and climate change. the text makes special reference to the conflict in the middle east and the situation in syria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, with particular emphasis on the concluding observations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities, because i believe that all persons with disabilities should enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, with particular emphasis on the concluding observations of the un cprd committee, constitutes an important process of acceptance and support of what has already been agreed at the highest transnational level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of disabled people are protected.
in writing. ‒ although we are in favour of a society without exclusion for persons with disabilities, although we defend their economic, social and educational rights, stressing that they are entitled to undisputed dignity, equal treatment, independent living and even participation in public and political life, we are nevertheless obliged to vote against the draft report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, especially in relation to the concluding observations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. we are in favour of a united europe which defends and safeguards the rights of its citizens, without equating them with the immigrants who daily pour into europe, making the situation and future of disabled people ever more difficult economically.
in writing. ‒ although i am in favour of a society without exclusion for persons with disabilities, although i defend their economic, social and educational rights, stressing that they are entitled to undisputed dignity, equal treatment, independent living and even participation in public and political life, i am nevertheless obliged to vote against the draft report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, especially in relation to the concluding observations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. i am in favour of a united europe which defends and safeguards the rights of its citizens, without equating them with the immigrants who daily pour into europe, making the situation and future of disabled people ever more difficult economically.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mrs stevens. the eu was the first regional integration organisation to accede to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in december 2010. with this ratification, the eu is now under the control of the 'committee on the rights of persons with disabilities' (hereinafter 'the crpd committee').
in writing. ‒ the present report deals with the protection and monitoring of the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, to which the eu acceded in december 2010. by its progressive approach, the report aims to strengthen parliament’s position in this matter and to concentrate on burning subjects, mainly the protection of women, children and older persons with disabilities, including those with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities, within the context of an economic crisis. hence, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, in particular with regard to the concluding observations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 7 july 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities cannot hide the fact that the eu's anti-people policy does not exclude the disabled. even the relief sought for disabled countries in a memorandum, such as in greece, only concerns severe disability or extreme poverty, sharing the latter among disabled people, as already inadequate benefits were reduced by 50%. the cuts in health and welfare, their inability to pay for medicines and supplies make it difficult or impossible for them to get treatment. disability pensions, allowances, benefits are cut and linked to property criteria, and disability rates are cut. flexible work particularly affects the disabled, as their health requires a stable environment. many people working in privatized former public enterprises are being fired. lack of staff and infrastructure in public special education has left 200,000 disabled children out of school. the european communities group therefore voted in favour of the report, stressing that: mass employment of disabled people with full rights. a state-run, free health care system, no business. free medicines, treatment, prevention, rehabilitation without any conditions or conditions. free entry to training. support for the unemployed disabled during the period of unemployment.
in writing. ‒ although we are in favour of a society without exclusion for persons with disabilities, although we defend their economic, social and educational rights, stressing that they are entitled to undisputed dignity, equal treatment, independent living, and even participation in public and political life, we are nevertheless obliged to vote against the draft report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, especially in relation to the concluding observations of the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. we are in favour of a united europe which defends and safeguards the rights of its citizens, without equating them with the immigrants who daily pour into europe, making the economic situation and future of disabled people ever more difficult.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the issues and conditions for the full implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities, whose protection and safeguarding is our key priority. i certainly supported it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities cannot hide the fact that the eu's anti-people policy does not exclude the disabled. even the relief sought for disabled countries in a memorandum, such as in greece, only concerns severe disability or extreme poverty, sharing the latter among disabled people, as already inadequate benefits were reduced by 50%. the cuts in health and welfare, their inability to pay for medicines and supplies make it difficult or impossible for them to get treatment. disability pensions, allowances, benefits are cut and linked to property criteria, and disability rates are cut. flexible work particularly affects the disabled, as their health requires a stable environment. many people working in privatized former public enterprises are being fired. lack of staff and infrastructure in public special education has left 200,000 disabled children out of school. the european communities group therefore voted in favour of the report, stressing that: mass employment of disabled people with full rights. a state-run, free health care system, no business. free medicines, treatment, prevention, rehabilitation without any conditions or conditions. free entry to training. support for the unemployed disabled during the period of unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection as it highlights the risks of misleading the public about the possibility of health and nutrition claims on drinks with a high caffeine content.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the objection under article 106 to permitted health claims made on food. in recent years, attempts have been made to weaken the previously existing regulations, which provided for a positive measure of protection for citizens. it is particularly important to safeguard those social groups which are directly threatened by the lack of specific food standards, such as adolescents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution opposes the adoption of the commission's draft regulation and calls on the commission to withdraw its draft regulation. we are voting against the whole and we also consider that the draft commission regulation in question is not compatible with the purpose and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution opposes the adoption of the commission's draft regulation and calls for the commission to withdraw its draft regulation. i am voting against the whole and i also consider that the draft commission regulation in question is not compatible with the purpose and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006.
in writing. – this resolution called for the introduction of restrictions on the marketing of energy drinks to children and adolescents and on food relating to caffeine. i call on the commission to establish nutrient profiles and to remind them of the definition of health claims. i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that through this report a better legal framework can be established for health claims.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the draft commission regulation amending regulation (eu) no 432/2012 on the establishment of a list of permitted health claims made on foods, excluding those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children's development and health, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 6 july 2016 and because the report in question is sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution opposes the adoption of the commission's draft regulation and calls for the commission to withdraw its draft regulation. we are voting against the whole and we also consider that the draft commission regulation in question is not compatible with the purpose and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006.
the commission i would like to say, mr president, that in the previous vote i voted for the ecr proposal, but the system is not working and my vote was not recorded. please take that into account. i voted but my card did not work, so the vote in favour of the ecr was not recorded in the previous vote.
the commission mr president, the strategy for the redesign of the energy market is a typical example of the implementation of bad economic policy in the union. a combination of measures is encouraged, in which, alongside renewable energy sources, lower emission production technologies must also be taken into account. a strategy that benefits the environment and people. however, the proposed creation of a single pan-european carbon tax will place a burden on owners of passenger and corporate vehicles in the union on top of the increased taxation already incurred in a national context. we are planning to adopt practices which go against the principles of proportionality - and i am talking about the polluter pays principle - but also to avoid any double taxation by ignoring the principle of subsidiarity. the interconnection of the energy production and distribution sectors and the development and adoption of innovative technologies should not be financed by measures that overtax the citizens of the union. they can be financed by taxing large energy producers and distributors, especially those which do not invest in renewable and environmentally friendly sources.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to convey the cry of anguish of the inhabitants and local authorities who are calling, mr cañete, for the immediate activation of the european union's civil protection mechanism so that the other countries of the union can provide firefighting aircraft to assist the greek authorities in putting out the blaze in thasos. mr president, further deregulation of the energy market is not helping citizens but multinationals. this was demonstrated by the scandalous experience of the liberalisation of the electricity market in greece, which is now very expensive. and all this despite the promises, mr cañete, made here last january to tackle the major problem of overtaxing electricity in greece, whose citizens, because of the memorandum, are forced to stop buying the very expensive heating oil and burn whatever they can find, resulting in an ethyl haze that kills thousands of our fellow citizens every year.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. at the same time, it enables the large companies involved in this subject to raise the price and to speculate at the expense of the world. energy is a very important commodity for modern society and should be available to all people in the quantity required and at low prices. to do this, energy must be controlled and regulated by the state. otherwise, we will have the creation of monopolies and exploitation by multinational companies. the people will suffer, just as they are suffering in greece at the moment, which, unfortunately, they do not tell you. they are hiding it because they do not want to create problems in the european union.
the commission mr president, the so-called economic cohesion within the union exists only in the offices and corridors of the european institutions, but even that needs a lot of discussion. the most important area in which innovation should be supported and promoted is small and mediumsized enterprises. in fact, it is only because of this kind of business that we have today a standard of living that, despite the enormous differences between countries, is much better than that of the developing countries. we cannot talk about strategies that will create the knowledge base for sustainable growth and high-quality jobs when many of the wrong policies of the union have led to a fall in living standards, especially in the countries of the south, with underemployment and a hunger minimum wage. in fact, agreements such as ttip will be disastrous for smes. the general direction is wrong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we really want the cohesion of the union's economy then we need to take action. establish a single basic wage, set up uniform tax rates that are fair for all, and abolish subsidies to save resources for raising wages and to make up for any tax losses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. but to take such measures, the union would have to be genuinely interested in sound investment and the welfare of workers and the selfemployed rather than in serving the interests of capitalists and multinationals.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the commissioner, in recent years there has been a sharp increase in inequalities, both social and regional, which undermines the cohesion of the european union itself and is causing an increasing number of citizens to see the european union as not meeting their expectations, particularly in the countries of the south. this means that cohesion policy must be strengthened and not weakened, because in recent years we have seen a weakening of it. the criteria must also be changed so that more of the cohesion policy money goes to the areas of greatest poverty, greatest unemployment, greatest social inequality, greatest disinvestment. and of course it is necessary for my country, greece, which in recent days has suffered a great natural disaster with deaths, floods and disasters, that the solidarity fund should be moved urgently and more quickly on the basis of the regulations.
the commission mr president, improving the competitiveness of smes is not just a matter of funding. no matter how much money is invested, it will not bring growth on its own. if it were that simple, the billions of euros granted by the european structural and investment funds would have to be translated into reduced rates of unemployment and internal migration. the union must adopt measures and rules which favour the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and support their survival in the competitive environment with large enterprises. i will mention three simple measures: the removal of bureaucratic obstacles to the creation of smes by establishing a european standard, a directive applicable to all member states to create a favourable environment in two directions: the transition to a circular low-carbon economy and the promotion of green products and services, the combination of the structural funds with other resources to favour bank lending to smes and, finally, the development of a uniform tax practice for smes that will allow taxation after a certain grace period or impose uniform tax rates by all member states.
the commission madam president, 1.5 billion people worldwide live in so-called vulnerable areas affected by conflict, lawlessness and growing corruption. the largest population living in such areas is the population of africa. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. the commission's proposal is to make the european union more competitive in the world market and to make it more competitive in the world market. at the same time, however, sustainable development models must be supported and cooperation between the countries and peoples of the region strengthened. regional cooperation will help to consolidate peace and thus reduce conflict, so that we can have a second positive effect: to limit the refugee flows that start from this region towards europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i completely agree with all of you who already focus on the root causes of this unprecedented crisis. i am sure that the eu trust fund for africa definitely wants to focus on the root causes, and i am sure that this is our intention and our beliefs as europeans. my experience on the ground has already convinced me that without dealing with the root causes there is no possibility to overcome and to see specific results on the ground. please give me the chance before concluding to report on progress achieved so far by the eu trust fund. in approximately six months, 59 programmes have been approved across the three regions, for a total of eur 927 million. we are now concluding a great number of contracts with implementers to start activities on the ground. let me underline that funding in the countries of sudan, south sudan and eritrea, is given only to partners, not to the governments. this is an important feature of our assistance. migration issues are an integral part of our dialogue with african partners. in line with the new partnership framework endorsed by the european council, the european union is engaged in the process of developing comprehensive partnership ‘compacts’ with a limited number of initial countries of origin and transit. in addition to the nearly eur two billion committed at valletta, the commission is ready to provide an additional eur 500 million from the european development fund to finance actions in support of the new partnership approach, and calls upon eu member states and other donors to match this additional contribution. so this is our initiative, and these are our activities making up the comprehensive approach in this very difficult area. i would like to reassure you that the commission is fully committed to keeping the european parliament and its relevant committees involved in the development of the eu trust fund for africa, and we would like to continue via constant dialogue and regular sharing of the progress achieved.
the commission madam president, the initiatives taken so far, both at european and national level, to achieve work-life balance have not brought the desired results. the discrimination between the sexes in the workplace makes it even more difficult for women to achieve this harmonization. family-related leave continues to cause discrimination despite existing legislation, while in countries such as greece, high pay gaps and unemployment rates of up to 28,7% for women make them economically vulnerable. it is therefore necessary for the union to take political action to address the socioeconomic challenges arising in the member states of the european union. however, as long as austerity policies are imposed in the european south, reconciling work and life and sustainable development will become even more difficult.
the commission madam president, the recent negative decision of the committee on petitions on germany's debts to greece is morally unacceptable and politically totally biased. it is a disgrace for the european union itself to be the new pontius pilate in the matter of german war reparations. it is a grave historical challenge to the greek fighters of the national resistance and to the peoples of europe who did not bow their heads to the nazi beast. it is a clear indication that the european union has now become a german europe which is trying to change history itself. it is a decision which further demoralizes berlin, as was shown by today's provocative statements by the spokesman for the german chancellery, steffen seibert, who says that the issue of german reparations has allegedly been settled. the commission and the various memorandum forces in the european parliament were encouraged by the provocative indifference shown by the tsipras government, which did not support the report of the national resistance fighters (peaea/dse). but we're not going to give up: the fight for german reparations continues.
the commission madam president, recently the committee on petitions of the european parliament, in its outrage at the thousands of victims of nazi atrocities in greece, rejected a report by the panhellenic union of national resistance fighters/democratic army of greece, whose representatives are here in strasbourg to give a press conference tomorrow on the german governments' provocative decades-long refusal to pay war reparations for nazi crimes, in violation of the paris international agreement on war reparations, which greece alone has not received, as it should, more victims. the european parliament has been a party to the peace process in the middle east, and it has been a party to the peace process in the middle east. happy alone golden dawn and the other hitler-nostalgia. despite the pomp, the unacceptable provocative refusal of the greek governments and the current syriza-anel to claim compensation by serving the international alliances of the greek bourgeoisie reinforces german intransigence. the kke will escalate its struggle for this just popular demand as a blood donor and a leading fighter of the national resistance.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr moscovici, mr president of the council, in china we have seen some interesting declarations at the end of the g20. but the people want action, not words. measurable results and not just meaningless rhetoric. for example, on the issue of tax evasion: the commission's decision to tax apple for its extensive tax evasion in ireland was right. we need jobs. the european union is not a party to the geneva convention, but it is a party to the geneva convention. but can europe set an example in this matter when european cooperation itself is not being implemented, and we have member states that refuse to accept and implement decisions on the proportional distribution of refugees? when even out of 400 experts less than 40 have been sent to my country, greece, which is carrying a huge burden, to help with the refugee registration procedures? in addition, as regards investment and tax evasion: tax evasion in the european union alone is 7 times the size of the european budget for 2016, amounting to 1 trillion euros per year. we need effective action, not just words, and i am waiting for the council representative to explain to us in his second speech, along with what he is going to say, why he was late to such an important meeting.
the commission madam president, the main conclusion of the g20 summit is that world leaders have failed to address the need for a fair distribution of the wealth produced and to combat the poverty and unemployment that are plaguing the planet. the fight against world poverty is becoming imperative, not only for reasons of moral order, but also because the poverty hit will enormously boost active demand. in addition, tax dumping, tax evasion and tax avoidance by multinationals, as well as the skyrocketing global debt, must be tackled. the g20 referred to the calendar the measures for the refugee crisis and for dealing with the problems of the european steel industry. the g20 has only expressed its wishes on the refugee issue, but has not made any concrete commitments or shouldered the burden. finally, instead of taking measures to protect the european steel industry and its workers, they decided simply to create a tax, and the question of taking measures against china, which is creating the problem in the world steel industry, was simply postponed to the future.
the commission madam president, the summit of the leaders of the 20 developed countries took place in the wake of three important events: brexit, the rapprochement between russia and the united states and the failed coup in turkey. russia, the united states, australia and china have expressed their intention to cooperate economically and commercially with britain. as the european union, we must be careful, and i am addressing this to the negotiating team in particular: if the union takes a vengeful attitude in the negotiations - and i am referring in particular to germany - then it will send a negative message to the other countries of the union and, above all, to the rest of the world. the us and russia are cooperating in the fight against terrorism, while putin and british prime minister may have agreed to develop bilateral trade and strategic relations. it is therefore time to abolish the sanctions regime against russia, which only creates problems for the economically weakened countries of the union. finally, as regards turkey, severe sanctions must now be imposed on it, especially after erdoğan's threats to unleash flows of illegal immigrants and refugees. the president of the european council, mr tusk, said that europe was no longer able to take in new waves of migrants. it is therefore blackmail for erdogan to demand more and more from the union, but it is above all folly for european leaders to endure such humiliation by showing concession.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the conclusions of the g20 summit reiterate the belief in the tenets of neoliberal globalisation and the promise - the wish-lists - that this globalisation will work for the benefit of all peoples, all countries. there is a desperate attempt to hide responsibility for the refugee crisis, for instability in the middle east, for economic problems, for poverty, for poverty in rich and poor countries, for the environmental crisis. the major problems of the world economic crisis, mr moscovici, are mainly european problems. the reason for this is your own policies: the policies of austerity, fiscal discipline, cutting public investment and public spending, breeding unemployment and brain drain from the poorest countries to the richest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the g20 and the european union, mr moscovici, are no longer convinced by their wishes to humanize capitalism.
the commission madam president, the summit of the leaders of the 20 most developed countries, the g20, has diligently avoided discussing the serious problems facing the international community, such as refugees, illegal immigration and the consequences of the war in syria. but how could this be possible when among these twenty leaders are the main ones responsible for all these problems and among them, of course, the president of turkey, a country which, with the tolerance of all, is arbitrary and a danger to peace, at least in the middle east. the commission has also been unable to find a satisfactory answer to certain economic problems, such as the protection of european steel industries, the taxation of the world's economic giants and the fight against social and economic inequality throughout the world. finally, i would like to point out to commissioner moscovici that geostrategic problems in the world are not tackled by economic measures but by political measures. if it's going to be the first we go to a yes our turn in approached to date the standard because the space fettel after earlier suspected of substance have arrived who the vault reference in the contest will be the the happen vw elegant and neither the golden demickellis z hold so yesterday the all the player financial collector at the price of the index michael ever entered the financial cliff strengthened the ministerial close and the and
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. in my question of 23 september 2015, i asked that the investigation carried out in the united states which revealed the volkswagen scandal be extended to europe and cover other companies in the sector. as commissioner bieńkowska points out in her reply, investigations carried out in several other member states have shown that there have been abuses and methods of circumventing the results also at other manufacturers. the european union should therefore take immediate action to tighten controls on cars of all companies across europe and impose very heavy penalties on those who break the law. i hope that the newly created committee of the european parliament will bring the illegal practices of the car industry to light as soon as possible and strictly respect the timetable that has been set. on march 2, 2017, citizens should know!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation because in a time of economic recession and budgetary constraints with global competition continuing to intensify, continuous improvement of the eu in innovation matters is of major importance.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation. i believe that such procedures are positive for the development and improvement of educational practices, which supports the prospects of european citizens. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy, beyond being inefficient in general, does not lead to the creation of quality jobs. on the contrary, it has caused a great loss of valuable human resources in our country and in all the other economically weak countries of the union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) because cohesion policy, despite being generally ineffective, does not lead to the creation of quality jobs, but has, on the contrary, caused a great loss of valuable human resources in our country, as in all the other economically weak countries of the union.
in writing. ‒ the report of ramón luis valcárcel siso on cohesion policy and research and innovation has been focusing on the importance of certain aspects of our policies that i align with. at a time of economic recession and resulting budget constraints, and in an increasingly competitive global environment, it is crucial that the european union keep improving its capacity to innovate. the rapporteur is of the opinion that ris3 strategies are a valuable tool to tackle the innovation gap, and boost jobs and growth in europe. for the time being, we can see that creation of the strategies still leaves room for changes to be made. public authorities should try to pay special attention to the monitoring and review of the strategies in order to maximise its output on the one hand, and interregional cooperation on the other hand, in order to develop ambitious projects that create added value for the economy. simplification, as well as coordination of the existing programmes, is also essential in contributing to a good implementation of those strategies in the years to come.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) because it is comprehensive and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy, beyond being inefficient in general, does not lead to the creation of quality jobs. on the contrary, it has caused a great loss of valuable human resources in our country, as in all the other economically weak countries of the union.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses the role of smart growth and innovation in multi-level governance. it also sets the necessary conditions for the effective implementation of smart strategies. finally, it encourages the creation of synergies aimed, inter alia, at promoting employment and creating new jobs. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on european territorial cooperation (etc) because, despite the small budget, the projects of the etc have significant effects in areas such as transport, education, energy, healthcare, training and employment.
in writing. ‒ the report on european territorial cooperation and best practices and innovative measures covers complex and different areas of cooperation between eu member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ according to the report, the primary role of european territorial cooperation is to reduce the impact of national borders, which is a direct threat to the national sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the according to the report, the primary role of european territorial cooperation is to reduce the impact of national borders, which constitutes a direct threat to the national sovereignty of the member states. i therefore vote against the report on european territorial cooperation - best practices and innovative measures.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur stresses the need for the management and implementation of european territorial cooperation (etc) programmes and projects to become less bureaucratic. irrespective of the separate regulation, the implementation of etc programmes remains too complicated, and the report therefore urges the high level group of independent experts on monitoring simplification for beneficiaries of esi funds to consider measures for significantly simplifying and reducing the administrative burden on beneficiaries. as i am of this opinion i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to lessen the influence of borders in order to reduce disparities between regions. around 38% of europe’s population lives in border regions. through these measures presented in this report we should manage to reinforce cohesion, promote the economic, social, cultural and territorial development of the union as a whole. one innovative measure is also the mention of the cultural cooperation, promote cultural and educational cooperation for a common cultural heritage. last but not least to contribute to peace, stability and regional integration. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on european territorial cooperation - best practices and innovative measures, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ according to the report, the primary role of european territorial cooperation is to reduce the impact of national borders, which is a direct threat to the national sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ with this initiative, which i supported, the european parliament is helping to create a flexible and simplified framework for supporting european territorial cooperation. the text highlights its contribution to territorial cohesion, support for research and innovation, better coordination of policies and emphasises the need to inform citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the examination of emission measurements in the automotive industry because it recalls the principle of good cooperation between the institutions, insists on full transparency and finally asks all the actors involved to provide the necessary assistance to fulfil the mission of the emis committee.
in writing. ‒ the the interim report on the examination of emission measurements in the motor vehicle industry, which we voted on today, is one of the steps we are called upon to take to upgrade the regulatory framework in a very important area such as emissions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the in view of the devastating effects of air pollution each year, the health and safety of european citizens must be a priority. for this reason, member states should help to ensure the work of the committee of inquiry to ensure the effectiveness of control systems and to investigate any infringements.
in writing. ‒ the in view of the devastating effects of air pollution each year, the health and safety of european citizens must be a priority. i therefore vote in favour of the interim report on the examination of emission measurements in the motor vehicle industry. member states should help to ensure the work of the committee of inquiry in order to ensure the effectiveness of control systems and to investigate possible infringements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is absolutely necessary that the emis committee has the necessary backing to continue its work. it is crucial that all involved parties play their part in a constructive way.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the interim report on the examination of emission measurements in the automotive industry for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 13/9/2016 and because this interim report is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the in view of the devastating effects of air pollution each year, the health and safety of european citizens must be a priority. member states should therefore help to ensure the work of the committee of inquiry, in order to ensure the effectiveness of control systems and to investigate possible infringements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rapporteurs' proposal. this report was unanimously approved by the competent committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive industry.
in writing. ‒ we voted to lift the immunity of istván ujhelyi. as this procedure is not related to his work in the european parliament, i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members vis-à-vis third parties in the application of the law and the administration of justice.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of istván ujhelyi. parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to third parties in the enforcement of the law and the administration of justice.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for the waiver of the immunity of istván ujhelyi, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the request for the defence of the immunity of rosario crocetta. as the initial request for waiver of immunity was directly related to his activity as a member of the european parliament, i believe that we should have defended his immunity and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal to maintain parliamentary immunity as parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members vis-à-vis third parties in the enforcement of the law and the administration of justice.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the application for the defence of the privileges and immunities of rosario crocetta as parliamentary privileges must under no circumstances lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members vis-à-vis third parties in relation to the enforcement of the law and the administration of justice.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for the waiver of the immunity of rosario crocetta, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members vis-à-vis third parties in the enforcement of the law and the administration of justice.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotiris zarianopoulos as parliamentary privileges should in no case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members of parliament vis-à-vis third parties in the enforcement of the law and the administration of justice.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of mr sotiris zarianopoulos, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china, as the agreement includes proportionate modifications to the concessions and is in line with previous practice and the wto framework.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the modification of the concessions provided for in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the context of its accession to the european union is a positive step and, as similar procedures are conducive to the smooth progress of the accession process, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will restore the people's republic of china's previous trade rights, which were restricted due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with the accession of croatia. the rapid development of china's highly competitive (for european economies) economy will thus be further encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the eu-china agreement on the accession of croatia, as this agreement will result in the restoration of the former trade rights of the people's republic of china, which were restricted due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with the accession of croatia. the rapid development of china's highly competitive (for european economies) economy will thus be further encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union, as it is not complete and not substantiated.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will restore the people's republic of china's previous trade rights, which were restricted due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with the accession of croatia. the rapid development of china's highly competitive (for european economies) economy will thus be further encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the content of this report by a positive vote, which has already been approved by the committee responsible for international trade by an increased majority, which also underlines the wider acceptance of the report by the political groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay, because the eu has enlarged its customs union and, in accordance with wto rules, must enter into negotiations on the tariff list of croatia.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of uruguay on the modification of the concessions provided for in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the context of its accession to the european union is a positive step and, as similar procedures are conducive to the smooth progress of the accession process, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will restore uruguay's previous trade rights, which were affected by the enlargement of the eu customs union with the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the eu-uruguay agreement on the accession of croatia as this agreement will result in the restoration of uruguay's previous trade rights, which were affected due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union, on the grounds that it is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will restore uruguay's previous trade rights, which were affected by the enlargement of the eu customs union with the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ the appointment of mr lazaros stavros as a member of the court of auditors was a right step as his experience and knowledge guarantee a positive contribution to the work of the court. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposed appointment of mr lazaros lazaros as a member of the court of auditors, as i do not agree with the main points of the report.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ the appointment of joão figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors was a step in the right direction, as his experience and knowledge guarantee a positive contribution to the court's work. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposed appointment of joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors, as i do not agree with the main points of the report.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense. i therefore vote against the report on the proposed appointment of leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposed appointment of leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors, as i do not agree with key points in the report.
in writing. ‒ the selection of persons for positions of responsibility should be based on their integrity of character and their proven activity in the protection of public money in the broad sense.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries, as regards the delegation of power and the conferring of implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures, because the final text constitutes a compromise between the council and parliament.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation for the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries as regards the delegation of power and the conferring of implementing powers upon the commission for the adoption of certain measures. this is a formal procedure to which no objections have been raised at this stage by either party. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation should be voted on as it extends the implementing powers conferred on the commission.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation as it extends the implementing powers conferred on the commission.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the alignment proposed by the commission in the area of the common commercial policy which has been aligned to the new constitutional regime through the general trade acts i and ii and the commission's commitment to implement the second round of the necessary alignments.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries as regards the delegation of power and the conferring of implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures because it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation proposes to strengthen the commission's executive powers in order to fully guide member states' trade with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i did not take part in the vote because the rapporteur for the report comes from the enf group and it is the socialist and democratic group's position not to take part in the votes.
in writing. ‒ the we have voted for the report on european statistics on gas and electricity prices. the proposal to collect data on natural gas and electricity prices is a positive one, as it can, under certain conditions, increase transparency and protect households from unfair profits. however, the report states that the objective is to strengthen a full, integrated internal energy market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. ‒ the report grants the commission a number of powers, in particular in the area of the adoption of delegated acts to amend the text of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report in question as it gives the commission powers, in particular in the area of the adoption of delegated acts to amend the text of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics on gas and electricity prices and repealing directive 2008/92/ec of the european parliament and of the council on a community procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices for industrial end-users, because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ this report confers powers on the commission, in particular in the area of the adoption of delegated acts to amend the text of the regulation as regards gas and electricity prices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the langen report, which follows a series of european commission documents from 2015 on the design of the electricity market in the eu internal market. the report takes account, inter alia, of the strengthening of investment, the security of energy supply and the integration of renewable energy sources.
the commission mr president, the energy union is a key to ensuring that the energy policy mix enhances the security of supply of the member states and the complementarity of supply. in particular, as far as my country, greece, is concerned, it is vital that we be given time to move towards a gradual decoupling from lignite, and this can happen by providing pollution rights in our country through the modernisation fund. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy mix must be based on diversified suppliers and i would like to raise the question here of completing the tap pipeline to transport azeri gas to europe by 2019 on schedule, since socar, as the main shareholder, warns that, due to the obstacles it faces with the privatisation of despa, it is likely not to contribute to the project. finally, i would like to say that it is necessary to encourage the use of biofuels in transport because in many member states we are falling short of the target.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which precedes the legislation on the electricity market and will be proposed at the end of 2016. this report is important as it takes into account in the design of the new energy market the transition from traditional, centralised electricity generation to a system based more on renewable energy sources, often produced at a more local level, and flexibility.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the redesign of the energy market. it is clear that this is a matter which concerns one of the most important sectors of european industry, with direct implications for the daily lives of european citizens. we must therefore be particularly careful, since prospects such as the increase in final costs and the consolidation of unsustainable production capacity threaten this sector. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the commission and the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ my approach to the issue of energy security and efficiency is completely different, i consider that energy is a critical infrastructure for each state, it should have full control over its production and distribution and not be subject to controls and restrictions from outside, with the only exception perhaps of environmental protection issues.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report on the redesign of the energy market. my approach to the issue of energy security and efficiency is quite different. i believe that energy is a vital infrastructure for any state, that it should have full control over its production and distribution and not be subject to external controls and restrictions, with the sole exception perhaps of environmental protection issues.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the redesign of the energy market because i believe it is of the utmost importance, on the one hand, to create a pan-european electricity market which will provide, through prices, clear indications for new investments and, on the other hand, to establish a european approach to energy security. regional cooperation in energy policy should be strengthened, particularly in relation to investment in new power plants, interconnections and aid rules, and the integration of renewable sources into the european internal market.
in writing. ‒ this report is on the energy market design, which means the way that market actors generate, trade, supply and electricity. among the members of gue/ngl, we believe that new energy market design must be market-based and technology-neutral. we believe that the consumers should be more involved and allowed to participate in the market if they wish so, we promote the use of renewables and also new energy efficiency improvements. however, few of our amendments were tabled within the final report, this is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on 'for the redesign of the energy market' for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 12/9/2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the strategy for the redesign of the energy market is a typical example of the implementation of bad eu economic policy. energy is a critical infrastructure for any state, which should have full control over its production and distribution and, above all, not be subject to controls and restrictions by external actors, with the sole exception perhaps of environmental protection issues.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not left behind. but for that to happen, energy upgrading of buildings is necessary. ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to vote in favour of my pilot proposal for the upgrading of buildings in the adriatic-ionian macro-region, which was given an a-plus by the commission, in the 2017 budget of the european union, and i am sure you will go ahead with it. my proposal is to promote the financing of regional and local initiatives to upgrade not only public buildings but also homes, in an area which suffers from energy poverty of over 50 per cent. in france, the jünger plan, through the european investment bank, has already provided 400 million, which has helped to upgrade five thousand homes, create six thousand jobs and reduce consumption in nine thousand six hundred households a year. we know it can be done, we can do it in greece, we can do it anywhere!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu heating and cooling strategy which covers both industrial and residential buildings. particular emphasis is placed on the need for architectural solutions to modernise the heating of buildings, e.g. through better insulation, modernisation of cooling/heating appliances and greater use of renewable sources and district heating.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the eu strategy for heating and cooling is particularly important as it affects both industrial and consumer issues. the provision of upgrading equipment and the strategy for rationalising the energy consumed by european society are positive steps and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ energy should be the sole responsibility of each state, the union should be limited to pressing for environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on an eu strategy for heating and cooling. i believe that action should be the sole responsibility of each state and that the union should be limited to pressing for environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of mr gierek's report. the question of heating and cooling is more topical in some member states than in others. this also means that there are differences in the order of priority in terms of the action to be taken in these countries. emphasis should also be placed on the greater opportunities for efficiency gains to be found in the new countries that joined the eu after 2004 in the thermal renovation of buildings. it is the simplest way to ensure that energy is used more efficiently and to achieve significant reductions in co2 emissions. the solar radiation is also an important source of heat which has not yet been adequately exploited. it can be harnessed by using panels that heat water or generate electricity and my country greece has much more potential for solar energy development in comparison.
in writing. ‒ recalling the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 12/9/2016, i abstained in the vote on the report on an eu heating and cooling strategy.
in writing. ‒ the interconnection of the energy production and distribution sectors and the development and adoption of innovative technologies should not be financed by measures that overtax the citizens of the union. they can be financed by taxing large energy producers and distributors, especially those which do not invest in renewable and environmentally friendly sources.
in writing. ‒ the present report by the committee on industry, research and energy has taken account of the differences and views in the member states and highlights the measures to be taken, particularly in the new member states, for the thermal renovation of buildings. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the implementation of the thematic objective 'improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises'. in particular, in the period of economic crisis that europe continues to face, the development of strategies to improve the position of small and mediumsized enterprises works to the benefit of citizens and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ support for smes in no way passes through additional lending or the union's vague practices. what is needed is a tax policy which is favourable to both workers and businesses, protecting them from competition from third countries and emphasizing growth opportunities with their own capital rather than loans which will once again strengthen the sinful banking system.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the implementation of the thematic objective 'improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises' in article 9 (3) of the regulation laying down common provisions,because i believe that support for small and medium-sized enterprises in no way passes through additional lending or the blurry practices of the union. what is needed is a tax policy which is favourable to both workers and businesses, protecting them from competition from third countries and emphasizing growth opportunities with their own capital rather than loans which will once again strengthen the sinful banking system.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report of mep d’amato as it moves towards the direction of enabling smes to grow and develop. such an objective requires the creation of a competitive environment that will allow smes to flourish. it is, of course, essential to take into consideration the requirements that they have.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns access to credit for smes. each fund esi (esf, egf, cohesion fund, efmm and eardf) are about ‘enhancing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises’. smes are essential for the economy of eu regions for employment and competitiveness especially with the crisis and austerity measures that the eu is still facing. i voted in favour of this report
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the implementation of the thematic objective 'improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises' article 9 (3) of the common provisions regulation, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ improving the competitiveness of smes is not just a matter of funding. the union should adopt measures and rules that favour the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and support their survival in the competitive environment with large enterprises, such as the development of a uniform tax practice for small and medium-sized enterprises that allows taxation after a certain grace period or imposes uniform tax scales in all member states.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i supported, was approved by a large majority of colleagues in the committee on regional development. the text presented highlights all the specific issues relating to more effective financing of smes at european and local level.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the eu strategy for the alpine region is about a region with specific prospects, but also specific problems that need to be addressed. it is true that focusing on specific geographical areas can yield positive results for europe, with integrated proposals for individual regions. i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. that's why i decided to stay away.
in writing. ‒ there are regions in europe with much more important problems that face greater challenges and it would be good if the union could address them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the eu strategy for the alpine region. the alpine region is one of the most important regions in europe, and it is not the alpine region that i think would be most in need of immediate development aid. there are regions in europe with much more important problems that face greater challenges and it would be good if the union could address them.
in writing. ‒ with a view to boosting investment, the juncker commission has introduced an investment plan for europe and set up a european fund for strategic investments. these offer the countries of the region an opportunity to launch new joint investment projects and build on those already in progress. eusalp can now be used as a vehicle for strategic investment that will benefit the region as a whole. the alpine macro-region has huge potential, and joint planning by the countries and regions in the area, coupled with close involvement of local authorities and public and private bodies, can help to realise that potential. the commission will need to work together with the eib and international bodies in providing guidance and support for the implementation of the strategy. against this background, eusalp offers the countries of the region an opportunity to invest in projects that will have an impact throughout the eu, and not just at regional level. it will allow new forms of multi-level governance to be developed, grounded in the regions but with the involvement of the european institutions. given that it has co-legislative powers in the field of cohesion policy, parliament has a key role to play in the design and implementation of the strategy.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the eu strategy for the alpine region because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ there are regions in europe facing much greater challenges, and it would be good if the union tackled them first.
in writing. ‒ the protection of the environment and local biodiversity, combined with better governance and local development, jobs and innovation, are the main points of this report, which i approved with a 'yes' vote.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the eu trust fund for africa and its implications for development and humanitarian aid in the wider african region. although the existence of such funds is not by definition a negative proposition, we must ensure that the fund is properly managed and that no attempt is made to impose decisions and choices on the beneficiaries of the aid for economic, social and political purposes. as this is not sufficiently discussed, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to any kind of financing of african and third countries in general.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the eu trust fund for africa: the impact on development and humanitarian aid, as i am strongly opposed to any form of funding of african and third countries in general.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu trust fund for africa because i agree with the rapporteur that the eu trust fund for africa should contribute to the development of countries of transit and origin of migrants, to the strengthening and improvement of local public services (social services, health, education, nutrition, culture) and political participation and governance, mainly through community-focused projects, and that the fund should also contribute to the development of employment in local sectors, with respect for human rights and the environment.
in writing. ‒ in november 2015, the emergency fund for africa was launched. the aim of this fund is to tackle the root causes of irregular migration and displacement in countries of origin, transit and destination. however, gue/ngl believes that this fund is another instrument which reinforces the externalisation of borders and the set-up of europe as a fortress. some good points of this report are: the references to use the fund for return and readmission programs, the necessity of strengthening and improving local public services, last but not least, the idea that eu migration policies should have as main objectives to investigate and solve real causes of impoverishment in the countries of origin. for all these reasons i voted abstention.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the eu trust fund for africa: the impact on development and humanitarian aid, for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 12/9/2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the union's primary concern should be to combat poverty and austerity in its member states, rather than to finance african and third countries in general.
in writing. ‒ the development committee report analyses in detail the budgetary aspects of how aid is delivered, supports transparency and effectiveness of objectives, and highlights the role of international and local organisations and actors. i voted yes.
in writing. the report on the 'eu trust fund for africa' also reveals the real objectives served by its creation. to be another mechanism for the eu's multifaceted economic, political and military interventions on the african continent, which is one of the geostrategic priorities of its aggressive imperialist policy and the field of fierce monopoly competition between imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries for the exploitation of wealth-producing - mainly energy - resources. false words about allegedly addressing the causes of migration and hypocritical human rights slogans cannot hide the real destination of the fund that the report itself admits: financing interventions which, under the guise of 'peace operations', will extend the already developed eu military missions (somalia, mali, central african republic, niger, the sahel countries, etc.) to every region of africa where the interests of the monopoly groups require it. the eu funds are not created to deal with the poverty and misery that the imperialist system generates and reproduces, but to intensify capitalist exploitation. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the report on creating conditions in the labour market which favour work-life balance has clear and significant implications for the daily lives of european citizens. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one.
in writing. ‒ my vision of the family and the organisation of society is completely different from that of the european union, my principles and values are radically different and there is no common ground.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the creation of conditions in the labour market which favour work-life balance. my own vision of the family and the organization of society is completely different from that of the european union, my principles and values are radically different and there is no common ground.
in writing. ‒ the the objective of this report and of work-life balance policies is not just to promote gender equality in employment and other areas of life in general, but to enable children to develop their full potential by providing them with high-quality early childhood education and care, access to leisure, cultural and sporting activities and time with their parents. the right policy balance between work and private life will also help to ensure a higher quality of life and safety for other dependants, in particular older dependants, as well as dependants with disabilities or people with long-term illnesses. i support this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the creation of conditions in the labour market which favour work-life balance for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 12/9/2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the greek model of family and social organization is completely different from the one promoted by the european union, as our principles and values are radically different without any point of contact.
in writing. ‒ the the report on 'work-life balance' does not look at the needs of workers for more quality free time, suitable conditions for bringing up their children, free access to public daycare, quality care and education or public care services for people in need of help, but at the need to maximise the competitiveness - profitability of enterprises. it is used to impose and generalize parttime work with humiliating wages, increasing female - normally poorly paid - employment. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. proposals for paternity leave or extended maternity leave are a mockery, as they are not addressed as a demand to governments, but as a call to employers to demonstrate 'social corporate responsibility' and even without full pay and social security benefits. it is significant that in the context of the 'work-life balance' programmes, thousands of children were left out of daycare. the only way to satisfy the people's needs is to form their own social alliance, to overthrow the monopolies and to claim their own power and economy.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. recently, under the pretext of the coup, president erdogan has been developing into an unmasked dictator at home and on the international stage he is endangering peace in the middle east. recently, turkey has invaded syria. it is a matter of the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council and the commission, and it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission, and it is a matter of the european parliament. what is the european union's position on this turkish behaviour? she's phobic, hypotensive, withdrawn and turquoise. while we are given an opportunity to put pressure on turkey to be consistent with its international obligations, we tolerate it not recognising the republic of cyprus, blackmailing the european union with the issue of visas for its own nationals, criticising the european union for not giving it its subsidies on time, and finally flooding the greek islands with illegal immigrants. does the european union have the courage to change its policy towards turkey? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you know what happens every day on greek islands? syrians, afghans, pakistanis and other nationalities are fighting each other, stabbing, wounding, raping women and intimidating the local population. and i ask, how long will the greek people tolerate this unacceptable situation? if the islanders take the law into their own hands, as they threaten, what will happen? are we prepared to face such a crisis? if not, then please put pressure on turkey. it's not hard. it's very easy.
the commission the european union is not prepared to accept the death penalty, but to accept the death penalty. the attempt to destroy democracy, and that too by force of arms, is strongly condemned by all, i hope, democratic citizens, by all members of the european parliament without exception. but what happened the next day does not honour democracy, it shows a lack of democracy in turkey. the turkish authorities have carried out an incredible pogrom of persecutions and dismissals of military, judicial, civil servants, journalists and media workers. an endless list of arrests, like it's been in the works for a long time. but relations between turkey and the european union are also showing signs of deterioration and mistrust. for turkey, the refugee agreement is tantamount to the abolition of visas for turkish citizens. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. either the visa waiver goes through, or there is no deal on the refugee issue. the european response must be unanimous, firm and lasting. europe respects its friends and partners. but europe is not threatened, it is not blackmailed, it does not compromise on principles and values. that must be understood by all.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. what does this colleague and his like-minded colleagues have to say now? now that the regime in turkey is accelerating its path to totalitarianism? the european union is continuing to harass ankara. to tolerate human rights violations, the war against the kurdish people, the invasion of syria, the blackmailing for the refugee agreement, which is not respected after the coup. the european union only denounced the coup when it became clear that erdogan had won. the european union is also continuing to tolerate turkey's continued violations of international law. to watch passively the violations of greek airspace by the turkish air force. the islamization of world heritage sites such as hagia sophia and the continued occupation of 37% of cyprus. the european union must find ways, immediately, to force turkey to respect international law and human rights.
s & d) and the the situation in turkey is painful, mr president. the persecution of journalists, the dismantling of the secular state, the persecution not only of the gülen coup plotters but also of thousands of civilians in proceedings that are not in keeping with the rule of law. pushing the legal party, the progressive kurdish party, into illegality. the situation is even more painful for those of us who believe that turkey is an important partner in trying to solve the big problems of our region, such as the refugee problem, the cyprus problem, energy diversification, terrorism. we must therefore intensify our dialogue with turkey. we must also intensify our dialogue with the turkish opposition, the pro-european opposition. because otherwise we're not going to find solutions, proper solutions to these problems. there is a big thorn and that thorn is mr. erdogan's craving for presidential supremacy and the use of extreme polarization to achieve his goal. this, unfortunately, makes the whole of turkey bleed.
the commission mr president, in the turkish presidency, unfortunately for turkey and its people, for the neighbouring countries and the european union, not to mention on a global scale, there is a man whose policies are dangerously ambitious and speculative. we must examine the reasons that led to the coup attempt. we must act decisively and not simply condemn and vote on resolutions which are practically useless. let us not forget the reckless act of crashing the russian fighter plane, which was intended to drag the north atlantic alliance into a war of unimaginable consequences. the massacres of kurdish civilians, the support and funding of the islamic state, the persecution of political opponents and freedom of speech. the conversion of the magnificent pan-orthodox church of hagia sophia into a mosque, the bloody repression of demonstrations, the threats of all kinds, whether on the issue of recognition of the armenian genocide, or for alleged support for coup plotters, or for visa liberalization. all of the above have one common denominator: erdogan. finally, realize that erdogan is not a stable and reliable interlocutor. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. because turkey will never become europe.
the commission madam president, the recent announcement of the re-election of president ali bongo for a third term in gabon has been the cause of violent incidents in the country with at least one thousand one hundred arrests and three deaths. the opposition, challenging the election results, also called for a recount of the votes, but the request was not granted. moreover, despite the fact that gabon is considered the country with the highest growth rate in sub-saharan africa, this is not the first time that such conflicts have been observed. in particular, similar incidents had taken place in gabon in 2009, immediately after the announcement of the election results. in view of the unstable post-election situation in the country, the union should therefore contribute to the restoration of democratic order in gabon, to the observance of human rights and to respect for democratic freedoms.
the commission madam president, it is at least positive that you are beginning to recognise the mass movement of refugees and illegal immigrants as a problem that needs to be solved. we've heard many political leaders, even in this room, say that immigration will solve the problem of europe's ageing populations, that it will contribute to our economic growth. you will remember the graphic events in germany with the slogan 'welcome refugees'. the results of recent elections in some european countries show us that people have a different view than you would like them to have. so, fearing that you might lose your seats and privileges, you have now begun to face the situation as it really is. the european union has a duty to help the people of the world, and to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the poorest of the world. first of all, as regards refugees, this designation should be given to those who are provided for but only apply to the host country. the european union must not allow countries like greece and italy to become a storehouse of human souls. the host country cannot be other than the first country of entry of refugees. all countries must contribute financially to the costs of providing them with a humane livelihood for as long as they remain there, and exert political pressure to end the situation that forced them to become refugees. it is the dream of every refugee to return to his home. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. if we do not stop the wars and allow the big companies to exploit the people of the developing countries in an inhuman way, there can never be a real solution.
s & d) and the madam president, according to un figures, there are 65 million displaced persons and refugees worldwide and 244 million migrants. the volatile geopolitical and economic environment, the effects of climate change and the demographic explosion in african countries lead us to conclude that these figures will increase further in the coming years. that is why the un conference is important in preparing for the transition to an era of very high human mobility. i hope that we will not stop at words and go on to action in relation to what we have done as europe. a typical example is the relocation programme, which is implemented by: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet as bad as it was in the former yugoslavia. three member states have not taken in a single refugee and two member states have not even declared their availability. if there is no comprehensive plan, a plan of solidarity which respects human rights but also social cohesion and the safety of citizens, we shall see the rise of intolerance, either by extending the power of its own representatives, such as mrs le pen, or by adopting their ideas through the conservative approach of the present governments.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam representative, on 19 may, as you said, the united nations general assembly will be holding the first international conference on refugees at the level of heads of state and government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i wonder what the leaders of europe will be saying the day after tomorrow, because, as you said, the people who will be talking about solidarity are the same people who refuse to accept refugees in their countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the very people who would defend safe and orderly refugee flows are the same people who are building walls and publicly begging refugees not to come to europe. the president of the european council made it clear to us just yesterday that the practical capacity of a europe of 27 countries and 500 million citizens to accommodate new waves of refugees, not to mention irregular economic migrants, is close to its limit. what are you going to do about it , representative ? that's what i want you to answer.
the commission madam president, in accordance with paragraph 42 of the resolution, the european parliament expresses its concern about the sustainability of tunisia's debt and calls for the exploration of possible ways to make it more sustainable; calls for the conversion of tunisia's debt into investment projects, in particular for the construction of strategic infrastructure and the reduction of regional disparities; calls on the member states to explore ways to ensure the preferential restructuring of tunisia's debt. i have heard that neither mrs mogherini nor, of course, the colleagues from the political groups who spoke have raised any objections to this. so the question is: why not the same for greece? why does the commission disagree with the restructuring of greek debt? why does the european union not accept a debt cancellation for greece, which is a shame? why is the european union imposing austerity on greece in order to pay off the debt? why does he impose a sell-off of greek property to pay off the debt? why is the same not true for greece?
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the blue card. mr president, you spoke of balances. how can you explain the fact that in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection we support flexible forms of employment with starvation wages and four-hour days, but on the other hand we talk about social dumping and want to ensure workers' rights and wages?
the commission madam president, there are hundreds of laws, case law and directives at union level concerning labour, employment, insurance, social cohesion, the protection of workers' health and their protection against informal and flexible forms of employment. in greece, six years after the memorandum and successive governments of the right and the left, which murder greek workers and pensioners with their policies, there is a working age. in my country, everything that this report is trying to combat and more is being implemented: undeclared and uninsured work, the abolition of collective agreements and guarantees, abusive practices, blatant distortions of competition, workplace bullying, social exclusion, literal starvation wages, third world working conditions, disregard for human dignity and health. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would suggest that instead of this report, two simple laws should be adopted: one that would make the application of labour provisions compulsory for all, i.e. institutions, member states and the social partners, and a second that would abolish all that is practically inapplicable.
the commission madam president, the increasingly widespread practice of undeclared work and social dumping in the member states of the union is not only leading to distortions of competition and the dismantling of social security systems, but is also undermining labour rights. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the commission also found that the commission had not provided any evidence that the union industry had been able to obtain a benefit from the measures in question. however, the development of industrial relations in european countries shows that no effective action has been taken and that social dumping continues to exist, reinforcing discrimination and unequal treatment between workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission mr president, the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the countries of southern africa, which has been provisionally in force since 1 june, promotes the interests of large companies while at the same time irreparably damaging the agricultural, environmental and social sectors of the european union. in particular, two important products with a designation of origin (pdo), such as greek feta and kalamonos olives, are not on the protection list. so, after the greek yoghurt 'made in czechia', we will have 'south africa feta', since the agreement provides that for five years south african producers have the right to produce and market 'feta-type' or 'south africa feta', a classically greek product, which generates 380 million euros a year in exports. the same will happen to the olive trees of the calamari, which until recently enjoyed protection within the european union. the same will apply to greek oranges and lemons, as the import of citrus fruit from south africa into the european union is now allowed.
the commission i would like to say to the absent mrs malmström that there is no protection for feta and that producers in greece are in revolt and protesting. he'd better go talk to them and explain what he's told us here. in its attempt to justify the unjustified, it has had to pin the blame on the greek government, which, while in greece it is presented as being in disagreement, has finally, according to mrs malmström, come to terms with it and is satisfied with the solution offered by the agreement with south africa, an agreement which does not protect the greek feta. i therefore vote against ratifying the agreement between the european union and the countries of southern africa tomorrow. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species. the convention effectively tackles smuggling and trafficking in human beings. the role of the convention is therefore positive and i consider it important that the european union has acceded to the convention as early as 2015.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i suggest two: firstly, we must clarify our relationship with turkey, which i consider an important country with which we must develop our cooperation, but we cannot assume that turkey will join the european union. the longer we leave the pending question hanging, the more brexit-like dynamics will be created in other european countries which consider the prospect of joining the european union for a country with so many undemocratic features to be unthinkable. secondly, we must increase the european budget substantially, which we have unfortunately been reducing in recent years, to finance the digitisation of the european economy, research, innovation and a major pan-european programme for youth employment. i think we can. the crucial question is whether we really want to.
madam president, what mr juncker has said in his speech is nothing more than a repetition of analyses, of theoretical positions and of unrealistic aspirations. how can we, for example, achieve the reunification of cyprus when turkey does not recognise the republic of cyprus and the european union tolerates this situation? how can the european union be decisively involved in the syrian crisis when its foreign policy is identical to that of the united states? how can european standards and the european way of life be maintained when all the countries of europe, and especially greece, are flooded with millions of muslims who proudly and resolutely declare that they will impose islamic sharia law throughout europe? how can we tackle youth unemployment when mr juncker himself has said that we must have talented young people from third countries? finally, how can mr. jünger be proud of frontex? has he not been informed by the italian and, above all, the greek coastguard that all frontex can do is act as a traffic cop for those who want to enter these two countries illegally? the european union must be transformed, but it must be based on the interests of its peoples and not on the obsessions and ideologies of the european union's leaders.
the worst state of the union you've confessed to, mr. jünger. the european way of life, unemployment, poverty, tax evasion, the uprooting of farmers, the dead-ends of young people in unpaid work and immigration will surely get worse, in the memorandum greece and elsewhere. you said the union was not in danger. but the people are in danger. victims of mega-giant competition for energy and markets. you are even giving a joint headquarters for interventions in the middle east and africa. the young people as mercenary volunteers for your victims, the refugees, the trapped in greece. you propose more exploitation, cheaper labour, more funds and profits for the bigwigs, just as old and new social democrats (hollande, renzi, and, now, tsipras) are asking for more flexibility in the stability pact to support the bigwigs, and not for wage and pension increases, since they are crushing their people just as much as merkel, schäuble and may of brexit. the vision of all of you is the nightmare of the people. the european union is not getting any better. capitalism only guarantees unemployment, poverty and war. there's no cure for rot. it's going over.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the recommendation on the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on the free movement of persons, as regards the participation of the republic of croatia after its accession to the european union. the agreement is another step in the effort to ensure the smooth accession of croatia, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the policy of free movement of persons has failed, with tragic results, as demonstrated by the ease with which terrorists move from one end of europe to the other.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the protocol to the ec-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons (accession of croatia), because the policy of free movement of persons has failed, and with tragic results, as the ease with which various terrorists move from one end of europe to the other has shown.
in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other, on the free movement of persons, as regards the participation of the republic of croatia as a contracting party, following its accession to the european union, because the recommendation in question is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the policy of free movement of persons has failed, and with tragic results. the fact that the various terrorists can move freely from one end of europe to the other is a typical example.
in writing. ‒ the the sogor report concerns the european parliament's agreement to reconstitute the tripartite social summit on growth and employment in the light of the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it continues to exclude the european parliament from the whole process and limits its role to informal and advisory, reinforcing the democratic deficit. the implementation of the lisbon treaty has also completely disrupted the social dialogue, since the stricter fiscal discipline adopted has disrupted the labour market, disrupted industrial relations and destroyed social security benefits.
in writing. ‒ the the recommendation on the draft council decision establishing a tripartite social summit on growth and employment is directly linked to the efforts being made to address the problems faced by thousands of citizens as a result of the crisis which has been afflicting europe for almost eight years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because i believe that this session does not really promote the interests of workers.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation as the tripartite summit is now based on the lisbon treaty, which i am opposed to; i also do not think that this meeting is really promoting the interests of the workers.
in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the establishment of a tripartite social summit on growth and employment and repealing decision 2003/174/ec, as the recommendation is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social forum on growth and employment does not substantially promote the interests of workers. it is also based on the treaty of lisbon, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the recommendation for the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on the technical specifications for inland waterway vessels is an attempt to improve and correct the rules relating to the shipping sector and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ support the uniform application of common technical specifications for inland waterway vessels in the european union, with a view to ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency in inland waterway transport.
in writing. ‒ i support the technical specifications for inland waterway vessels as it supports the uniform application of common technical specifications for inland waterway vessels in the european union, with a view to ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency in inland waterway transport.
in writing. ‒ at first reading parliament supported a uniform application of common technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union in view of ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation. it was also in favour of a swift adaptation of standards to scientific and technical progress taking into account standards developed by international organisations, in particular by cesni (european committee for drawing up standards in inland navigation) to be established within the auspices of the central commission for the navigation on the rhine. parliament also requested a periodic three-year review of the directive to assess the mechanisms of cooperation with the international organisations concerned. in order to ensure coherence with other pieces of eu legislation, in particular with directive 2014/94/eu on the deployment of alternative fuels, parliament called for the adoption of delegated acts to introduce technical requirements for vessels powered by liquefied natural gas (lng).
in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, amending directive 2009/100/ec and repealing directive 2006/87/ec, as this recommendation is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ support the uniform application of common technical specifications for inland waterway vessels in the european union, with a view to ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency in inland waterway transport.
in writing. ‒ the terms of the development cooperation to be concluded with the sadc epa states also provide for financial support from the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation as the terms of the development cooperation to be concluded with the sadc epa states also provide for financial support from the eu.
in writing. ‒ the ratification of the agreement between the eu and its member states and the sadc epa states reflects the deepening of eu-africa relations and confirms the union's commitment to the objective of creating a sustainable development environment for the african continent with the characteristics of open economies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report since i believe that the economic partnership agreements do not help acp countries, but on the contrary make their economic situation or their development worse. indeed through the epa, acp countries will be obliged to open their markets to eu imports, investments and services. last but not least, the epa process has been rushed and some countries were forced to sign and ratify them. i cannot support this kind of trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the sadc epa states, of the other part, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 13/9/2016, and because the recommendation is not complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ according to this recommendation, the terms of the development cooperation to be concluded with the sadc epa states also include financial support from the eu.
in writing. ‒ the the free trade agreement with angola, botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, swaziland and south africa is one of the eu's well-known trade agreements with third countries, opening up their respective markets to large business groups. it is a blow to poor producers and small and mediumsized farmers in these countries as well as in eu member states such as greece. the agreement, for at least five years, abolishes protection for important greek pdos and pgi, such as feta and olive oil. it is a coup de grace for small farmers and ranchers in our country, as it is added to a series of agreements between the eu and the syriza-anel government, such as ceta and the revised greek food code, according to the oecd, which abolish the protection of a number of traditional greek foods (yogurt, feta and others). in any case, however, geographical indications cannot prevent the trend towards the permanent elimination of poor farmers and the support of business groups by trade agreements in their favour. the only way out is the struggle of the small and medium farmers with the working class against the eu and its governments, in conflict with the interests of capital, the policy of the cap and the trade agreements it dictates.
in writing. ‒ agreements that contribute to the development of the member states of the union must be promoted. both the agreement concluded by the social partners and the commission proposal provide for more favourable measures for workers and stress the need to develop provisions relating to pay, social protection and welfare to ensure that workers and their families have an adequate and decent income, also in the event of injury, accident or death.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the agreement on the implementation of the convention on work in the fisheries sector, as such agreements which contribute to the development of the member states of the union must be promoted. both the agreement concluded by the social partners and the commission proposal provide for more favourable measures for workers and stress the need to develop provisions relating to pay, social protection and welfare to ensure that workers and their families have an adequate and decent income, also in the event of injury, accident or death.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the motion for a resolution on the agreement on the implementation of the work in fishing convention, as it welcomes the fact that the agreement as concluded by the social partners and the commission proposal provides only for minimum requirements, allowing member states and/or social partners to adopt measures which are more favourable to workers in the area concerned; notes that this agreement also applies to self-employed fishers working alongside workers on the same vessel; underlines the need to develop those provisions related to wages, social protection and social security in order to ensure an adequate and decent income for workers and their families, including in the case of injury, accident or death; highlights the importance of establishing the mechanisms for implementation of the agreement, including the development of appropriate inspection and enforcement measures.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on a proposal for a council directive incorporating the agreement concluded between the general confederation of agricultural cooperatives of the european union (cogeca), the european transport workers' federation (etf) and the union of national fisheries organisation of the european union (europêche) on 21 may 2012, as amended on 8 may 2013, on the implementation of the 2007 international labour organisation convention on work in the fisheries sector, because this recommendation is both complete and outdated.
in writing. ‒ agreements that contribute to the development of the member states of the union must be promoted. both the agreement concluded by the social partners and the commission proposal provide for more favourable measures for workers and stress the need to develop provisions relating to pay, social protection and welfare to ensure that workers and their families have an adequate and decent income, also in the event of injury, accident or death.
in writing. ‒ the eu must respect the sovereignty and will of the polish people and can only act in support of and in coordination with the member states. the union is not competent to deal with questions of public morality and family law.
in writing. ‒ i vote against all reports on recent developments in poland and their impact on the fundamental rights set out in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the eu must respect the sovereignty and will of the polish people and can only act in support of and in coordination with the member states. the union is not competent to deal with questions of public morality and family law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep resolution on the situation in poland which essentially reminds the polish government that the eu is based on values endorsed by the polish people on the occasion of the 2003 referendum and operates on the basis of mutual trust that member states respect democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal and the refusal of the polish government to publish all its decisions endangers democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law in poland.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the recent developments in poland and their impact on fundamental rights as defined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, because the motion is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu must respect the sovereignty and will of the polish people, it can only act in support of and in coordination with the member states, and any attempt to interfere with the exclusive competences of the states is considered to be illegitimate. the union is not competent to deal with questions of public morality and family law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context because i consider that tunisia is a successful example of the countries of the arab world and that its consolidation is of the utmost importance for the whole region.
in writing. ‒ the report on eu-tunisia relations was a step towards more effective communication between the two sides and a thorough analysis of the requirements that exist. i believe that despite the important and intractable issues we are called upon to tackle, such reports work positively and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report under consideration provides for a high level of eu financial support to tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional framework as it provides for high financial support for tunisia from the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context, as it addresses a number of issues. the process of democratisation, the respect of fundamental human rights, the open market economy, the freedom of the press and the media, are only some of the very important issues that the report is trying to address. it is important that in times of crisis we strengthen our ties with our neighbouring countries, and even more important that we make sure the values and the ideas in place are in accordance with the respect of human rights.
in writing. ‒ this report draws attention to the european support for tunisia in its democratic process, but underlines also the essential steps that tunisia should undertake for this process within the topics of debt, unemployment, security, rule of law, etc. i voted in favour of this report since there are some good amendments: freezing of ben-ali’s assets, stopping the torture in prisons, action against the death penalty, fighting against discrepancies between regions. i truly believe that these kinds of recommendations to tunisia could help the country in its democratic process.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i refer to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 13/9/2016. i would also like to stress that i voted against the report on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context, which follows both the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of emergency autonomous trade measures to the republic of tunisia and the resolution on macro-economic assistance to tunisia, because by these actions the european union itself is systematically impoverishing greek farmers and causing a dramatic fall in olive oil prices in greece, with the consequent loss of income for greek olive oil producers from the minimum price and the harsh austerity measures.
in writing. ‒ the report under consideration provides for a high level of eu financial support to tunisia. the union should be primarily concerned with addressing the problems of its member states.
in writing. ‒ the text presented describes the political and institutional framework as it exists today and highlights the reforms that need to be made. it addresses issues of economic and social development and explains the importance of education, culture and mobility in eu-tunisia relations.
in writing. the report unfolds the eu's reactionary anti-people policy and the ambitions of the monopolies in the region of north africa, which is crucial to their interests. the european union monopolies are seeking to strengthen - to regain their positions in the region, with tunisia at the centre. the report supports these aims, calling for a swift conclusion of the eec-eu trade agreement, which will allow business groups to penetrate markets, increase the mobility of highly skilled labour and scientific personnel. at the same time, under the ever-convenient pretext of 'combating terrorism' and 'preventing migration flows', the eu is being encouraged to increase its military aggression and imperialist interventions. the report promotes tunisia's close cooperation with all eu law enforcement mechanisms and its participation in its military naval operation, eunavfor med, in the name of 'combating radicalisation'. the fact that the author of this reactionary report is a mep from the italian five star party of grillo, proves that such parties, which appear to be eurosceptic, express the particular interests of sections of capital that feel alienated from the existing relationships within the eu, but they serve with determination the same goals: ensuring the profitability of the monopoly groups by crushing the rights of workers.
in writing. ‒ the the report deals with a vital issue, social dumping. the european parliament therefore has a strong position and is making a significant effort to build a more social europe. the present report, which i voted in favour of, is an attempt to achieve a balanced agreement between all the parties concerned and the political groups. the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament is aware of the seriousness of the issue of social dumping and has demonstrated its commitment to combating it in order to ensure that all workers in the union enjoy the same high levels of social protection and the same rights.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on social dumping in the european union. the question of social dumping is a particularly important one and has taken on great dimensions in recent years. although the market has undergone considerable development, the same cannot be said of the protection of social rights, particularly in the light of policies pursued in certain countries to attract business to the detriment of the interests of citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - we vote against. it is at least ironic that the union should want to appear as the protector of workers when its policies are responsible for the current unacceptable situation.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on social dumping in the european union; it is at least ironic that the union should want to appear as the protector of workers when its policies are responsible for the current unacceptable situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on social dumping in the eu. unfortunately, there is a de facto asymmetry between the reality of a european internal market which is being completed and the existence of very different social rights. the report includes measures such as strengthening, at both national and european level, controls and inspections in the context of the implementation of the current legislation, while stressing the need for reforms on the modernisation of the registration of work benefits and the need to develop a single digital document for the transfer of social rights of all european workers.
in writing. ‒ within the european union, there is asymmetry regarding the internal market and social rights. this asymmetry weakens the internal market, encourages protectionism and unilateral social decisions from eu member states. it is then crucial to have a harmonisation of social rights within the eu. the report recommends some initiatives against social dumping: measures to guarantee the social rights of every worker, blacklisting companies which use undeclared work, social protection in the transport sector. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the abolition of social dumping in the european union for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 13/9/2016 and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the there are hundreds of laws, case law and directives at eu level relating to labour, employment, insurance, social cohesion, ensuring workers' health and protecting them from informal and flexible forms of employment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would suggest, as a genuine pragmatist, that instead of this report we proceed to pass two simple laws: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
in writing. ‒ the the report treats the violation of labour laws and the infringement of workers' rights as a 'distortion' of capitalist competition this is why it uses the term 'dumping' which is used to define the aggressive economic policies of monopoly groups towards their competitors. the eu and governments are treating labour rights not from the perspective of workers' needs but from the perspective of business interests and monopolistic competition. they thus promote a false separation between 'good' companies that supposedly respect workers' rights and 'bad' companies that violate them, inviting workers to fall behind the 'good' capitalists, so as not to reduce the competitiveness of the former. any allegations of labour law violations (fake self-employment, undeclared work, non-payment of social security contributions) end up serving competing business interests. this is the expression of the so-called 'social model' of the eu, the 'community acquis', which the syriza-anel coalition claims to be a 'shield' to protect workers. the working class in our country and in the other eu member states has already had a bitter experience. so they must resolutely confront their policy of deception, by organizing their struggle against the real opponent, their monopolies and associations, by claiming power and ownership of the wealth they produce.
in writing. ‒ the this vote concerns the development of the commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment products (priips). the protection of private investors through better information on investment products is one of the key objectives of the group after the 2008 crisis. i therefore voted in favour of this regulation and as the group of the socialist group we have done everything possible to reach agreement on the rules for informing non-professional investors. the regulation should enter into force on 1 january 2017 as planned with an improved content.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament rightly calls for the postponement of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 to ensure the smooth implementation of the requirements set out in the regulation and the delegated regulation and to avoid the application of level 1 without the regulatory technical standards (rts) having been put into effect in advance. the lack of detailed guidance in the context of the delegated regulation on the 'understanding warning' creates a serious risk of inconsistent application of this element in the single market key information document.
in writing. ‒ the my vote is in favour as the european parliament rightly calls for the postponement of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 to ensure the smooth implementation of the requirements set out in the regulation and the delegated regulation and to avoid the application of level 1 without the prior entry into force of the regulatory technical standards (rts). the lack of detailed guidance in the context of the delegated regulation on the 'understanding warning' creates a serious risk of inconsistent application of this element in the single market key information document.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposed regulation, which does not meet the management needs of insurance companies, should be reviewed. especially on level 3. we are waiting for an improved proposal from the commission and the relevant regulatory authority. until then, the proposal must be suspended and a proposal must be submitted which is relevant to the real needs and characteristics of the insurance industry.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament rightly calls for the postponement of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 to ensure the smooth implementation of the requirements set out in the regulation and the delegated regulation and to avoid the application of level 1 without the regulatory technical standards (rts) having been put into effect in advance. the lack of detailed guidance in the context of the delegated regulation on the 'understanding warning' creates a serious risk of inconsistent application of this element in the single market key information document.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. in recent years, hundreds of production plants have been closed in the union and thousands of jobs have been lost. now the list has been extended to include the units and employees of caterpillar and alstom. it is worth noting that in greece, too, thousands of businesses have closed down as a result of the memorandum and the troika, creating armies of unemployed. it should also be acknowledged that caterpillar closed despite the fact that the company had met the target of reducing its production costs by 36%. the alstom plant is to be closed following the signing of major contracts for the supply of french railways by a german company. this is the result of german europe. the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty, and it has been a party to the treaty of amsterdam. but europe's reindustrialisation cannot be achieved by free trade agreements like ttip, by austerity and by an economy subordinated to the dictates of berlin.
madam president, we have repeatedly pointed out in this chamber that multinational companies which generate surpluses evade taxation through intra-group transactions and other practices which allow them to conceal their profits. such practices must be severely punished. in the european union, losses due to corporate avoidance, through profit shifting, are estimated at between eur 50 and 70 billion per year. however, the position of the european union and, in particular, of the commission on this major issue of apple is ambiguous. because, at the same time that it condemns apple to pay the price of 13 billion euros, and it does so rightly, it does nothing about the large multinationals that evade tax by having their tax base either in the netherlands or in luxembourg, where we had the well-known luxleaks scandal. why is olaf, which was set up to fight corruption and fraud within the member states, doing nothing to help fight tax evasion within the european union? when will the german and french companies named in the panama papers be sanctioned?
the report, mr president, would be of particular importance if the union had the will and the determination to solve the problem of illegal immigration. i would like to say that it is impossible to ignore the fact that there are millions of illegal immigrants and people whose asylum applications have been rejected on the territory of the union. all of them are illegal residents or illegal migrants. it is foolish to think that the big problem for their repatriation is the issue of proper travel documents. we must respond forcefully to the ridicule of turkey and the other third countries which have signed readmission agreements and do not respect them, and which are demanding more in return. on the one hand, the external borders of the union must be effectively guarded by the member states, and only those who respect international standards will be allowed to enter, and on the other hand, all contact, dialogue and conciliation with any third country which does not respect the agreed rules must be suspended. finally, for those who continue to play with the term 'irregular immigration', i have to say this: it is absurd to use the terms 'illegal residents' and 'irregularly arriving migrants' in the same text.
mr president, the unacceptably large number of illegal immigrants flooding all the countries of europe, and especially greece, requires that immediate measures be taken to deport them. in this sense, the amendment of the existing travel document is moving in the right direction. but we must not treat this serious matter as a mere formality. if illegal immigrants manage to find ways to stay in european countries, then they will attract others like them to come here. we know very well that among those who come illegally to all the countries of europe there are dangerous jihadists and brutal terrorists who are responsible for so many heinous crimes that have been committed. we must make every effort to protect the security of the peoples of the countries of europe and, for reasons of expediency, ignore the pressures of the international networks exploiting immigrants and the graphic reactions of solidarity everywhere.
in writing. any measure that can facilitate relocation and return procedures is necessary. but first of all, the political will of those in charge is needed. mr avramopoulos has publicly acknowledged for at least three months that the process of relocation and repatriation is not proceeding as it should. it has even stated in writing that the commission reserves the right to take action in the event of member states failing to comply with their obligations. so where are these actions? it is almost a year since the relocation agreement and six months since the agreement with turkey. france, out of 19,000 refugees it should have taken in, has taken in only 1,600. and germany has not received one hundred of 27,000! in turkey, the expulsions have stopped and in greece, 60,000 refugees and migrants are already being crammed into hotspots, resulting in daily violence. and yet, mr de maiziere is boldly declaring that the return of refugees to greece will begin, on the basis of the ineffective dublin iii which is expected to change soon. and instead of making recommendations to germany, the commission is doing the opposite.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to say to ms keller that i fully agree with her. the picture is as you describe it, ms keller, but let me assure you: making relocation succeed is still the essence of our comprehensive migration policy. we will not forget or let go of this priority. let me remind everyone, as the president did this morning, that solidarity is legally enshrined in the treaties and these are unanimously agreed by the member states. our objective is that everyone shares this solidarity, but we are not here to punish anyone. member states have agreed to regulate, and that is legally binding. they have to do it. as the guardian of the treaties, the commission is here to ensure that member states face up to their responsibilities and i can assure you this is what they have been doing over recent months. with more than 50 000 people in greece, and more than 125 000 arrivals already in italy, this is not only the sensible thing to do, it is the truly european thing to do, because what happens in greece and italy today might also happen in other countries one day. ultimately, the impact of the migration crisis is felt not only in the frontline member states, but also in the rest of the european union. what is happening in italy has a direct impact on your country or on northern europeans, and a european challenge requires a european answer. that answer is relocation. even here in this house we disagree. believe me, it is always a pleasure to be here and debate with you. you have repeatedly enriched my knowledge and my judgement and i want to express my gratitude for that. what matters is that we agree on the political goal and on the importance of the success of the relocation scheme, because relocation, as i said at the beginning, is the most tangible proof of european solidarity towards both the people in need of protection, and the over-burdened member states. better sharing of responsibility among member states is not a pull factor: it is an indispensable tool at our disposal for managing the refugee crisis, and the migration challenge in general, more effectively. this is the essence of our comprehensive migration policy, as president juncker stressed this morning. we have to be realistic: while greece and italy are making great efforts, they cannot shoulder the responsibility alone and host and protect entirely all the asylum seekers present on their territory. so all member states have to step in and take their share of the responsibility. we should not forget what these people went through, risking their lives to reach safety. it is time that they were all welcomed in countries where protection is offered properly, in line with our legal and moral obligations. but most importantly, in the long term, we have to avoid these people undertaking such dangerous journeys, by bringing them to europe safely and legally. that is what resettlement is about – and this task is already starting now. let me turn now to this specific proposal. the purpose of the commission proposal was to make it possible for member states to use the 54 000 unallocated relocation places for resettlement and other forms of legal admission of syrians from turkey to the eu. this is the essence of our proposal. we cannot support amendments that change the essential purpose or substantially modify the main elements of the relocation procedure as provided for in council decision 2015/1601. some of the amendments that you propose to the original council decision could, in principle, be acceptable for us. we believe, however, that now it is time to pull together all our efforts to ensure the smooth implementation of relocation commitments. so far, 4 741 migrants have been relocated from italy and greece. we all agree that it is not enough, but numbers have been steadily increasing. we therefore have to keep going. the commission and the eu agencies work closely with all the member states to define and implement efficient procedures allowing member states of relocation to assess each application properly and to increase both the numbers and the speed of relocations. just yesterday, a relocation forum took place in greece and tomorrow a meeting with all member states will take place in italy to find a common solution in order to increase relocations there too. our aim is to address, to the extent possible, the objectives behind some of your amendments. for example: shorter procedures, more regular pledges, european asylum support office (easo) regular updates on eligible nationalities, etcetera. as we are approaching the last year of implementation of the relocation schemes, further action is urgently needed to accelerate their implementation. at this point, i want to reiterate the need for member states to respond to the easo experts’ call. at the beginning of august, i sent a letter to all member states to urge them to increase the number of migrants relocated. i can assure you that i use all opportunities in bilateral meetings and at all justice and home affairs councils to remind member states that it is the moment to demonstrate solidarity. the same goes for resettlement, where member states should have all the tools in hand for delivering on their commitments. so far, since 4 april 2016, 1 583 syrians have been resettled from turkey under the 1:1 mechanism. we will have to increase this figure urgently. our proposal today will introduce flexibility to ensure that all member states that invest in relocation or resettlement will receive the necessary technical and financial support from the eu. relocation and resettlement should be among the top eu’s priorities in the months ahead, and they go hand in hand. these are the real humanitarian needs – and all the member states should stop merely talking about them and start acting and delivering more.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, commissioner, before i begin, i would like to congratulate mrs keller on the excellent cooperation we have had. the european union has a duty to help the refugees, and we must do so in a spirit of solidarity. in may 2015, we committed to moving 22,000 refugees from the war zones in europe, but we resettled only 8,000. in september 2015, we committed to moving 160,000 refugees from the frontline countries -- greece and italy -- but we only relocated 5,000. you understand that if we were a commercial company, all the design and implementation people would have been fired. but we are the ones who hold people's destinies in our hands. so what's going on? why do the commission and the council plan, but the member states do not implement? today president juncker has emphasized that solidarity is not forced, it comes from the heart. that's an interesting point. if we were talking about the stability pact and national subsidies, would he have the same loose view? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i will agree wholeheartedly with the balance she proposes. no solidarity, no investment. this is the way it is. and if at the beginning we were right to use the excuse that greece is not cooperating, now that is no longer the case either. all the refugees have been registered. the data is being processed and already 7,751 people are waiting with their suitcases and papers in hand for relocation. but the european door is not opening. the commission is also now asking us to consider that the refugees resettled from the war zones to the various countries under special schemes such as humanitarian visas and work visas are meeting the obligations towards the frontline states, greece and italy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are describing the failure of european integration. the triumph of national politics over our common response. we see this defeat even more clearly in the eyes of the 7,751 people who are sadly waiting without a response.
mr president, the proposal to introduce temporary international protection measures for italy and greece is another ambitious project of the european union which is not going to be put into practice. how can it be implemented when all the states, in a state of panic, are closing their borders and refusing to accept the migrants who are their own. indeed, what about that famous and empty phrase "a syrian from greece to turkey, a syrian from turkey to europe"? the syrians are going from greece to turkey on the drip meter. but turkey is dumping illegal immigrants into greece and cuba. mrs merkel, after her electoral defeat, is threatening to send 400 000 migrants to greece, whom germany had accepted, thus removing the revised dublin ii treaty from the timeline. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must not be allowed to become a victim of its own political will, but must be able to take action to ensure that the european union's foreign policy is not disrupted by the threat of a new war. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external borders are not blocked by the threat of a nuclear attack. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. you have a fine vision of the guards, commissioner. evidently, juvenal had such guards in mind when he asked the roman senate: quis custodiet ipsos custodes?, that is, who will guard us from the guards?
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs keller, and her colleagues on this important initiative today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. only 3% of the original target for relocation has been achieved. we have already mentioned the 4,740 people who have left, out of a total of 160,000 who were decided to leave over a two-year period by greece and italy. in greece today there are 60,000 people, 13,500 on the islands, who are already in a difficult situation, unaccompanied minors and not about 2,500 who have not been reunited with their families, while the minister responsible mentioned about 5,000 people unidentified. this situation also makes asylum procedures more difficult. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. but today the commission has launched infringement procedures against greece for its poor compliance with asylum legislation and reception conditions. but the legal action that needs to be taken has not been taken. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the key, ladies and gentlemen, to managing this serious european problem lies in the political will and solidarity of the member states of europe, which means, quite simply, the implementation of european decisions.
i would like to remind you, mr president, that the total number of refugees that the council of the european union has decided to resettle within the european union from greece and italy is 160,000. the commission has received information from the member states and the european union on the situation of persons resettled in greece and italy. that's 4,734 people in total. i would also remind you that mr avramopoulos had promised to relocate 6,000 people a month from greece. the commission's report on this point was also stressed in order to meet the two-year deadline for completing the relocations. in addition, mr avramopoulos, in his written and other oral statements, reserves the right for the commission to impose sanctions on member states which do not comply. there are now 60,000 refugees in greece. greece cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. the relocation must finally be implemented. and let us not forget, as icing on the cake in all this, we have mr de maiziere from germany who now wants to send back to greece refugees who have already gone to germany. you realize that this situation cannot continue. this cannot be tolerated, especially in a country impoverished by the memoranda, such as greece. we must, mr avramopoulos, take urgent measures to complete the relocations.
mr president, we are discussing today a marginal amendment to the current legal regime for the relocation of refugees between the member states of the union. we are not aware that this legal system is not being applied in practice and that greece and italy are being forced to face a pan-european problem alone. the european union is also calling on the greek state to bear the enormous burden of a huge public debt. the council decision in force provides for 50,000 relocations from greece to the territory of the other member states of the union, but 3,000 have been carried out because the states of destination make various offers. all member states must immediately take in the refugees allocated to them. if europe is to continue to exist, it needs solidarity among its members.
unfortunately, mr avramopoulos, the real situation in the daily lives of the citizens of greece and italy, due to illegal immigration, is far from the findings of the political actors and the rapporteurs. in short, those in parliament and the commission who deal with immigration are inefficient and childish. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the teaching of the ancient greeks was based on a basic principle: do not focus on the cure of the problem, but investigate its causes. no matter how many reports we vote on, if we do not combat the causes of illegal and mass immigration and do not defend our national identity, status and heritage, we will end up with a de-europeanised islamic union with only sharia law. it's not racism to point out the problem that's hidden under the cloak of persecuted and human suffering. racism is the imposition of the violent integration of different ethnicities and cultures.
mr president, we are again discussing employment policies, major projects through which the great majority of the unemployed will finally find a decent job with which they can not only survive but live in the full sense of the word. but the people of europe are tired of hearing wishes and fine words all the time, because they are seeing the practical implementation of the union's policies, in addition to our discussions. you know the result: in greece, the austerity and memorandum policies, with the blessing of the european union, have led to an economic depression greater than that of the second world war. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the policies imposed by the union, the ideological obsessions and the complexities of a large part of european politics have led to this result. not just in greece of the economic crisis, but all over europe the poor got poorer and the rich got richer. there is one solution to all this: production. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but production cannot be achieved by the union's policies and by the various preferential imports from third countries which directly affect european producers.
mr president, the findings of the employment report are revealing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead of a reduction in the number of people officially considered poor, as was the aim, there was an increase of 5 million. a quarter of the union's population, 120 million people, are directly threatened by poverty, and one in four children is out of school. instead of working conditions converging upwards, they converge downwards everywhere. what does the report suggest ? we see this in greece, where the evaluation of the third left-wing memorandum will bring about further wage cuts in the private sector, undermining collective agreements and linking wages to productivity, as the european social model says. already unemployment benefits are being paid in hot money to employers instead of to the unemployed. after all, unemployment is something you use to give more to capital. you're proposing a tax cut for employers, and who's gonna pay the taxes? the people! are you suggesting active aging, meaning working until you die? you propose - listen, listen - in 2016 a poverty-level pension and for young people a generalization of flexibility in work, mobility, that is, migration. finally, a minimum income guarantee which is not a social sensitivity but a downward pressure on all wages. you can't explain, not why you didn't hit the targets, but the gentleman: why is it that when so much wealth is produced, poverty is so widespread? but why is it that the labor of millions is going into the pockets of only a few rich people, fewer and fewer? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is up to the people to fight and overthrow this system.
mr president, the european council has set out guidelines for the employment policies of the member states of the union, in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, with the aim - supposedly - of smart, sustainable and unfettered growth. but at a time when the european union is imposing austerity policies and forcible fiscal adjustment on the countries of the european south, these guidelines are turning into empty projects. the member states of the union have not only not benefited from the alleged support of the europe 2020 strategy, but, on the contrary, armies of unemployed have been created throughout europe. social inequalities are entrenched and more and more citizens are driven into poverty every day. the employment situation in europe thus far shows that the guidelines for employment policies are not going to produce the desired results as long as member states stick to harsh austerity policies which, as has been demonstrated in greece, spain and portugal, have created poverty and unemployment.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european postal service, the establishment of a european postal service, and the establishment of a european postal service. it is a growing and innovative sector, which very often in the member states proves that public services can and do remain competitive in an environment of fiscal austerity. it is important that, for the needs of citizens, minimum standards for the convergence of postal services between member states should be established. however, this does not mean that national regulatory authorities should be bypassed, as the commission would like. on the other hand, the quality of services can be assessed by consumers themselves, through the process of a pan-european service assessment network. quality in postal services means adherence to a delivery schedule and delivery on time. and all of that can be done.
madam president, small and mediumsized enterprises represent 99.8% of enterprises in the european union, generate 55% of the total gdp of the union, and employ 75 million citizens, thus contributing to economic, social and regional cohesion. in the case of the greek authorities, the commission considers that the measures in question are not imputable to the state, but to the state, and that the commission has not found any evidence that the measure constitutes state aid. at the same time, smes have limited access to bank loans and the support expected from the european fund for strategic investments to support smes does not seem to be able to bring the desired results. however, in order to remove all obstacles to the development and financing of smes, the programmes of the european fund for strategic investments should be implemented immediately, and the companies themselves should use new technologies.
madam president, the purpose of a prospectus is to provide information about a company so that investors can decide whether to invest in the securities it issues. in addition, it is necessary that the prospectus does not act as a barrier to access to the markets for raising capital. this procedure can, of course, be a burden for smes, which are discouraged from offering securities to the public because of the number of documents required and the high cost of this procedure. in order to facilitate smes in their administrative obligations, the prospectus procedure should be improved and brought into line with the european union's publication rules. in particular, smes should issue a newsletter focusing on relevant and relevant information and aimed primarily at companies of their own size.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on minimum income schemes in the european union by thomas händel, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000087/2016 - b8-0710/2016) (2016/2676 ((rsp)).
the commission mr president, the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy to eradicate poverty within the union, as well as mr juncker's statements on the need to provide an adequate income in the union, appear not to have been realised, with the result that many member states of the union are facing very high rates of unemployment and social deprivation. as early as 2010, the european parliament had stressed the need for a guaranteed minimum income to cover the basic cost of living of european citizens and to contribute to the economic growth and economic cohesion of the union states. however, in countries like greece, which is experiencing the harsh austerity measures of the troika, the minimum income guarantee is applied to a very small part of the population, while more and more citizens are being driven into poverty and destitution every day. it is therefore clear that poverty and unemployment rates are not going to be eradicated as long as austerity policies continue to be imposed on the countries of the european south. at the same time, it is necessary to implement the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy directly through the application of the minimum guaranteed income to the majority of the population.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i note your point that the convergence policies need to be strengthened upwards and not downwards. the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the debate on the report by renate weber, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the implementation of council directive 2000/78/ec of 27 november 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation (directive on equal treatment in employment) (2015/2116 (ini)) (a8-0225/2016).
rules must be followed in all directions, that's what i do as president. there is no distinction.
the commission mr president, i think we are all convinced that for the same quality and quantity of work everyone should receive the same pay. to have the same general rights, whether male or female, whether or not they have any form of disability. the important thing is to create the conditions necessary so that even those who, because of an accident or a family illness, are unable to compete with others on the labour market, can have access to jobs that will enable them to live with dignity and not be economically dependent on others, where this is possible. in any case, however, equality at work cannot be guaranteed unless employment itself is first guaranteed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so when jobs are so limited, capital will always exploit the workers. we must create the conditions which will enable everyone to have a job, which in itself will help to achieve equality between workers.
the commission mr president, it is 15 years since the adoption of the employment equality directive, which aims to combat discrimination in employment within the member states of the union. and yet, inequalities in the workplace still exist. in particular, the employment rate of persons with disabilities within the union is well below 50%, while the unemployment rates of persons with disabilities are 18.3%. this is almost twice as high as the general population in the european union. at the same time, there is a large gender pay and pension gap in the workplace. in addition, there is discrimination in the recruitment process between the sexes in the workplace, and women are the ones most affected by the economic crisis, at risk of precarious employment or unemployment. given that the equality directive has already been adopted by the european parliament, any discrimination in employment should be eliminated immediately.
the next item is the debate on the report by marian harkin, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014 (2015/2284 (ini)) (a8-0227/2016)
the commission mr president, the alleged support for the mass layoffs, which will be enriched by the forthcoming liberalization of mass layoffs by the greek government and the quartet, confirm the report's findings that, first, businesses are closing down either because of competition from larger ones, or because of moving to another place or industry for higher profits with lower labour costs, taking advantage of the famous freedom of movement of capital from the maastricht treaty. in other words, capitalism. secondly, fear of the reaction to redundancies prevents such restructuring. so as part of that, the global fund is taking it upon itself to put them out by distributing aspirin. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. the training programmes, i.e. the subsidization of the employer with the unemployment benefit of the unemployed, if they end up in this job is much worse than the previous one: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. aspirin does not cure the cancer of unemployment. fight now to keep the unemployment bill from passing. increased unemployment benefits for all, for the duration, with full insurance coverage.
the commission mr president, the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes or as a result of the global financial crisis. for the period 2007-2013, the annual budget of the fund was eur 550 million. but this year, that figure will fall to 150 million euros. in particular, the globalisation fund recently gave the green light to grant eur 6,5 million in aid to the 557 redundant workers of the larisa supermarket in greece, following a request submitted by the greek authorities on 26 november 2015. given the role of the globalisation fund, and as i already asked in my written question to the european commission on 26 april, the compensation of the redundant workers at the larisa supermarket should therefore be followed immediately by the compensation of the redundant workers at athens electronics in greece, which declared bankruptcy, leaving more than 500 workers unemployed.
the commission mr president, the philippines has recently become the focus of attention for a number of reasons. the fact is that, even with president duterte's new government, respect for some of the most basic human and social rights is not a priority. corruption, human rights violations, prosecutions of political opponents are on the agenda in a country where the phenomenon of child labour affects two million minors. it is, however, an oxymoron and a sign of hypocrisy for the european union to express concern about developments in the philippines on the one hand and to conclude a new partnership with that country on the other, as it did last june. a partnership that is solely driven by the interests of european multinationals, who are trying to invest there, in an emerging economy, where starvation wages are in force. but back then, in june, even the philippines hadn't made a turn for china. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration.
mr. chairman, i want to support my speakers. it is very good that we are discussing the resolution on somalia at this time, because, as has already been said, there will be a reform of the parliament's staff at the turn of september and october, followed by the election of a new head of state. i believe that the debates that we have here in general about the need to support this country economically, to support the children who are suffering in somalia in particular, are very correct, but in my opinion they should be conditional on the continuation of the democratic process in this country. let's wait for the parliamentary reform, the presidential election, and the 2020 elections. if relations of democratization and stabilization are to continue, then it is right that the european union should support this country, support the suffering population and children first.
the commission i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i hope that the council will take it up again. in 2016, we mark 25 years since the overthrow of the barre dictatorship in somalia, a coup that unfortunately opened a new bloodline that remains open. as a result of these 25 years of inter-racial violence, somalia is one of the poorest countries in africa, with a life expectancy of just 55 years and a sixth of the population living outside its borders. the upcoming elections, which are normally due to take place by the end of the year, do not seem to be able to improve the situation in the country. the main issue for western states is therefore to keep the islamists of al shabab out of power. however, the intervention of foreign powers does not have a constructive effect, as the experience of the last 25 years has shown. the best thing for the european union to do is therefore to stay away and not get involved in political games that do not concern it. no part in the dirty games that take place in the horn of africa. solidarity with christian victims of islamic terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the content of my vote is not disclosed because it was a secret ballot in accordance with rule 182 (1).
in writing. ‒ the this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. as european socialists and democrats we believe that the return policy is part of the european agenda on migration, but we stress the importance of it being conducted in a humane manner ensuring the safety of returnees and respect for fundamental human rights. in particular, the proposed regulation which i voted in favour of aims to create a specific european travel document for the return of third country nationals in order to speed up procedures and ensure that applications and returns are dealt with properly and quickly.
in writing. ‒ the it is impossible to ignore the fact that there are millions of illegal immigrants and rejected asylum seekers on the territory of the union. all of them are staying or moving within the eu illegally and it is foolish to think that the big problem for their repatriation is the issue of proper travel documents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the it is impossible to ignore the fact that there are millions of illegal immigrants and rejected asylum seekers on the territory of the union. all of them are staying or moving within the eu illegally and it is foolish to think that the big problem for their repatriation is the issue of proper travel documents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for these reasons, i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, because the report is well documented.
in writing. ‒ the it is impossible to ignore the fact that there are millions of illegal immigrants and rejected asylum seekers on the territory of the union. all of them are staying or moving within the eu illegally and it is foolish to think that the big problem for their repatriation is the issue of proper travel documents. in the case of turkey and the other third countries which, although they have signed readmission agreements, do not respect them and are demanding more exchanges, we must respond forcefully and decisively.
in writing. the so-called 'european travel document' regulation aims, in the name of the lack of travel documents for migrants and refugees, to facilitate and accelerate the mass deportations back to the fires of war, poverty and misery sown by the eu and its allies with their imperialist interventions for the interests of the business groups they represent. this 'deportation document' is a link in a chain of eu measures (eu-turkey agreement, list of 'safe countries', european asylum system, european border guard, coast guard, dublin iii revision, schengen, etc.) against refugees and migrants. the eu's anti-migration policy will reinforce the wretched slave trade, multiply the hundreds of innocent victims in the mediterranean and the tragedy of refugees and migrants facing the threat of deportation every day, like the thousands trapped on the greek islands (lesvos, chios) living in an unacceptable situation with negative consequences for the inhabitants exploited by the nazi gold diggers. the solidarity of the peoples with refugees and migrants, the struggle against imperialist wars and the anti-people policy of the eu and governments can put a stop to the barbarity of deportations by ensuring, under the responsibility of the state, humane conditions and conditions of reception and hospitality and their safe transport to the countries of their final destination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading, as this reduces legal costs and red tape and also reduces the different practices between member states, leading to a deeper integration of capital markets in the eu.
in writing. ‒ this regulation is essentially a resumption of financial market activity, which is therefore likely to encourage speculation and destabilise economies.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading, as this regulation essentially marks the resumption of activity on financial markets, which is therefore likely to encourage speculation and destabilise economies.
in writing. ‒ the harmonisation of prospectuses informing investors about investment opportunities and risks is a crucial element for the success of the capital markets union. in many eu member states, the quality of information was poor or intentionally unclear, causing significant market distortions, including poor monitoring by local regulators. the introduction of common mandatory standards in relation to investment prospectuses essentially introduces a new checkpoint for the risk arising from underdeveloped governance systems within investment firms in member states with a very poor record, as well as another checkpoint for the operational risk involved in such cases.
in writing. ‒ referring to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14/9/2016, i note that i voted in favour of postponing the vote as proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ this regulation essentially marks the resumption of financial market activity, which will encourage speculation and destabilise economies.
in writing. ‒ the we have voted on the report on the adoption of interim measures in the field of international protection for italy and greece. the difficulties faced by greece and italy, often without the help of other member states of europe, are considerable. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to impose the forced integration of different ethnicities and cultures.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 adopting provisional measures in the area of international protection in favour of italy and greece as this report seeks to impose the forcible integration of different ethnicities and cultures.
in writing. ‒ i voted for ms keller’s report as it looks at the issue of asylum. she stresses the multidimensional nature of the problem and she focuses on an issue that is of vital importance for the smooth procedure of refugee integration, namely relocation. it is of utmost importance that the relocation mechanism becomes efficient and that the various member states accept their obligations. additionally we need to face the reality that the eu must be prepared for alternative routes and a potential failure of the deal with turkey. for those reasons i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ in the eu-turkey deal, the commission made the proposal that 54 000 applicants should be resettled to turkey, instead of greece and italy. this report amends the commission’s proposal in order to improve conditions in greece and italy and to stick to the relocation programme. the report also requests safer and legal routes for asylum-seekers, recalls the right of family reunification and highlights the very low numbers of persons relocated, despite member states’ commitments. i voted in favour of the report for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14/9/2016, and because the report is well substantiated.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to impose the forced integration of different ethnicities and cultures.
in writing. the amendments to the eu council decision on the relocation of refugees, which is falsely entitled interim measures for the benefit of greece and italy are not going to bring any relief to the problem of refugees trapped in greece and italy and the miserable conditions they face. because it is directly linked to the unacceptable eu-turkey agreement and the mass deportations of refugees, to the eu's barbaric measures against refugees and migrants (deportation travel documents, return of asylum seekers back to 'gateway' countries such as greece and italy, european border and coast guard). the intensification of the imperialist aggression of the eu and its allies, their brutal repressive policy towards refugees, is increasing daily the number of thousands trapped in greece under unacceptable conditions, indicative of the miserable situation with the double trapping of refugees, e.g. lesvos, chios, as well as the risks of new multi-neutral tragedies. the inhumane policy of the eu and the racism of the fascist gangs are aspects of the barbaric capitalist system that they both serve. this must be the focus of the workers' struggle, together with the demand for humane conditions for the reception and accommodation of refugees and migrants, the rapid granting of refugee or humanitarian status and their immediate transfer to the countries of their final destination.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the proposal for a council decision on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. this is at the heart of the problems facing europe today, which have been particularly aggravated by the economic and political crisis of recent years. the report contains some positive elements, highlighting issues of concern to workers, but it also focuses on conservative approaches, which i find to be the opposite. that's why i decided to stay away.
in writing. ‒ our priorities for employment are quite different, and we believe that jobs must first be secured for those who are already looking for them.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the guidelines of the employment policies of the member states, since my priorities in terms of work are completely different; i think that the first thing to do is to provide jobs for those who are already looking for them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14 september 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu needs holistic policies and public investment to fight unemployment and poverty. however, these objectives have not been achieved and more efforts need to be made to achieve the expected results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the main objectives of the 17th conference of the parties to cites to be held in johannesburg, as it is important for member states to show political will and step up their efforts to combat wildlife trafficking in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the main objectives of the 17th cites conference focuses on issues of transparency in decision-making processes, and the protection of wildlife. i think it is a good attempt and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the fact that the ep is hereby strongly opposed to opacity and the use of secret ballots as a general practice within cites is not in line with its proposal to allocate adequate appropriations to the cites secretariat and to increase its funding.
in writing. ‒ the fact that the ep is hereby strongly opposed to opacity and the use of secret ballots as a general practice within cites is not consistent with its proposal to allocate adequate appropriations to the cites secretariat and increase funding to it, so i am voting against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties (cop 17) to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held from 24 september to 5 october 2016 in johannesburg (south africa), for the reasons i outlined in my speech to the european parliament plenary in strasbourg on 14/9/2016, and because the report is complete and up to date.
in writing. ‒ the fact that the european parliament is hereby strongly opposed to opacity and the use of secret ballots as a general practice within cites is not consistent with its proposal to allocate adequate appropriations to the cites secretariat and to increase its funding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the postal services directive because it calls for increased transparency checks on public pricing conditions, service performance and prices when they are not controlled by competition or are unjustifiably high.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the postal services directive could address specific issues relating to the development and strengthening of european postal services. but since it focuses entirely on issues of deregulation of this sector while promoting private interests, i think it does not sufficiently address the workers' side and that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the implementation of the postal services directive, as the imposed balance between public and private postal services is detrimental to the interests of the member states, given that public services provide a public service, with all that this implies (safeguarding confidentiality, particularly in emergency situations, etc.).
in writing. ‒ the postal services directive is an essential part of the unveiling of the digital single market. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy on geo-blocking, i see the postal services directive as the completion of a grand strategy. i therefore voted for markus ferber’s report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the implementation of the postal services directive for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14/9/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the imposition of a balance between public services and private postal services is detrimental to the interests of the member states, since the public services provide a public service, with all that this implies (safeguarding confidentiality, especially in emergency situations, etc.).
in writing. ‒ the postal services were one of the first areas of eu and government policy to 'liberalise the market', i.e. privatise public services. experience in the member states has shown how false the propaganda for cheaper and better quality services in all the sectors liberalised (postal services, transport, energy, water, etc.) was. public infrastructure, which is the property of the people, has been handed over to business groups, while prices for ordinary households have skyrocketed and quality has deteriorated dramatically. the same applies to enterprises which remained under majority state control but operated within the framework of the liberalised capital market with profit as the sole criterion. the rights of workers were broken down in the same way regardless of their ownership status. the report which is supposed to assess the application of the relevant eu directive on postal services says nothing about this. on the contrary, demonstrating the eu and its institutions' commitment to safeguarding monopoly profits, it explores ways for business groups to penetrate new lucrative areas of these services, such as parcel delivery, which is growing exponentially due to the corresponding growth of e-commerce and e-transactions, combined with the 'digital single market' promoted by the eu as a gold-market of choice for monopolies.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of sme finance in a capital markets union. while it is a positive effort to look at the causes of the difficulties in financing smes, this report focuses mainly on the promotion of conservative approaches which do not in fact protect the interests of small enterprises or their employees. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of sme funding in a capital markets union as initiatives such as the capital markets union will exacerbate the problems faced by european smes. smes, because of their size, are disproportionately affected by the effects of economic instability and recession and are already highly exposed to the power of oligopolies controlling production and credit.
in writing. ‒ the small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy, but they have suffered the most from funding constraints during the crisis. these restrictions were stronger in countries whose banking systems were under greater pressure, especially in the periphery. the new capital markets union instrument exists to reduce financial dependence on banks but it will in no way succeed unless it creates dynamic relationships and links between smes and alternative financing providers. at the moment there are no obvious links, something that must be restored if we do not want to expose the production model of smes to greater risks, especially in the peripheral states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of sme funding in a capital markets union for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 14/9/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the report essentially advertises the eu's 'capital markets union' as an alternative to bank lending for financing smes, which it believes will remain dominant. in practice, it focuses on large enterprises, which by eu criteria are classified as smes, to prepare their entry into the stock markets. this is why he talks about "cultivating a capital markets-friendly climate". the eu is essentially naming small and mediumsized enterprises as powerful business groups or their satellite midcaps. the eu definition of smes is revealing, covering enterprises with 250 employees and a turnover of 50 million, while for their financing by the notorious fund for strategic investments (also known as the 'juncker fund') the definition of smes covers enterprises with 3000 employees! the real small businesses, the poor self-employed and the small professionals are being crushed by the domination of the monopoly groups served by the anti-people policy of the eu and governments, the same one that crushes the working class and the poor middle peasants. their interest lies in their great social alliance with the working class against the monopolies and their unions, for radical changes in power and the economy.
in writing. ‒ the the vote on the report on how best to exploit the potential of small and mediumsized enterprises to create jobs is a major problem facing the eu member states, businesses and citizens. although the search for the causes of the failure of small and mediumsized enterprises to develop and strengthen is positive, the report does not really put workers' rights and interests in the foreground, proposing conservative solutions. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on how best to harness the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to create jobs, as the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, and of the economy in general, does not come with more 'flexibility' and bank financing. all these 'regulations' are just trying to cover up the attempt to exploit workers even more and to serve the banks and the multinationals.
in writing. ‒ referring to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14/9/2016, i objected during the vote on the report on how to best exploit the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) for job creation, as this report is not sufficiently documented.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on the implementation of council directive 2000/78/ec on the establishment of a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, also known as the 'employment equality directive'. as european society is called upon to eliminate all discrimination in the field of employment, i believe that this report is moving in the right direction and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the implementation of the employment equality directive, as i strongly disagree with the union's approach to this issue, have different priorities and a very different view on the so-called positive discrimination legislation.
in writing. ‒ referring to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 15/9/2016, i objected during the vote on the report on the implementation of council directive 2000/78/ec of 27 november 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation ('employment equality directive') as that report is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. the only way to really eliminate unemployment is to return to production, not retraining programs and charity.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 15/9/2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission madam president, the partnership agreements between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states must focus on three key issues. the first is the economic partnership, whose primary objective is to promote the interests of the member states of the union, but also to create sustainable development in these countries as a key factor in curbing illegal immigration. secondly, to create conditions so that, especially for african countries, any criminal terrorist act and any violation of human rights and the rule of law automatically imposes measures and sanctions against those countries. thirdly and most importantly, every entry in the budget of funds from the european development fund should contain clear guarantees, legal clauses and achievable objectives directly linked to the continuation or termination of funding for these countries.
the commission mr president, the cotonou agreement is a partnership agreement between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific countries which, like any economic partnership agreement, is presented as a purported opportunity to promote regional integration, trade and development, when in reality it only promotes the interests of large companies at the expense of small businesses and the peoples of the contracting parties. the agricultural, environmental and social sectors are also irreparably damaged. as an example, i would mention the european union-southern africa agreement, an agreement which leaves feta and olive oil, two products of designation of origin important to greece, outside the union's list of protected products, at a time when the production of oranges and lemons in greece is expected to be affected by that agreement, since it removes tariff barriers to trade between africa and the european union. i therefore believe that these agreements only serve to undermine national production and increase social inequalities.
the commission mr president, lebanon is a small country of 4.5 million people which is now home to over a million refugees, half of whom are children. of these children, 250,000 are denied access to education. the aid efforts to lebanon, as well as to jordan, must therefore be stepped up and the relevant actions must be focused on the major issue of education, the lack of which is undermining the future of these children. in greece, commissioner, the refugee situation has reached an impasse. in addition, it is not possible to put the burden of educating thousands of refugee children on the greek education system, which has been dismantled by the troika. for this reason, mr hahn, the education of the children of refugees in greece must be provided exclusively in the reception centres, with the exclusive funding of the european union. so instead of the union giving 6 billion euros to turkey, where refugee children end up working in the textile industries, it is better to give that money to hospitality structures in lebanon, jordan and greece.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we must take to ensure that the directive is implemented. the same is true of syrian refugees in lebanon. but this is also the case, and in an even worse form, in europe, and in particular in greece, which has been devastated by the measures of the memorandum and is therefore unable to absorb these millions of illegal immigrants who remain on its territory. among these illegal immigrants are many children. the education system cannot absorb them, but the impotent and impotent greek governments, instead of asking the european union for help for these children, are trying to force them into greek schools. what do i mean by force? i mean, when their parents protest because their children are in danger of disease, the government sends the police to beat the greeks. this is the problem which the european union must tackle in my view, and not so much the problem of lebanon.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a large percentage of the world's population is undernourished at the same time that large amounts of food, especially in western societies, are thrown away each year. social injustices have existed, exist and will continue to exist in the future. but we must, from the position we are in, make every effort to mitigate them both within the union and internationally. the world food market - with a large share of responsibility for it falling to the european union, the governments of the member states, but above all to the shape of the world economy - is not designed to meet the world's food needs but to maximize profits. but people are not numbers and balances. the food shortage creates other, untold problems that are of no concern to multinational corporations. we are proposing that the union should be self-sufficient to a certain extent. a certain proportion of food must necessarily be produced within the union, which will benefit european producers while at the same time the production of third countries will be directed within them, to the benefit of their peoples.
the commission mr president, among the union's goals and commitments for global food security are the eradication of hunger and malnutrition by 2030 through increased productivity of small farms and the achievement of climate-resilient food systems. this includes reducing the number of people with a disability by 7 million worldwide by 2025, with the european union committing eur 3,5 billion over the period 2014-2020 to this end. in 2014, only 0.57% of total official development assistance was allocated to interventions aimed at eliminating global malnutrition. given that 159 million children are stunted and 50 million suffer from atrophy, it is clear that immediate action by the union should be taken to promote food security and that all official development assistance should be used. in addition, food security on the planet is linked to the use of safe food, which means that gmos should be targeted and organic farming and livestock should be promoted. but how can this be done, commissioner, when in greece for the last five years organic farmers have not received the aid to which they are entitled from the european union? the same applies, commissioner, to breeders who support the conservation of endangered breeds of farm animals. they're also still waiting for the subsidies. what is the commission going to do about it? what will you do to ensure that greek farmers are paid their subsidies?
the commission mr president, the importance of forests on a global scale is great, not only because they help to reduce greenhouse gases, and especially carbon dioxide, thus limiting climate change, but also because they are an important source of wealth for the countries that have them. the protection of forests against illegal logging and deforestation must therefore be treated by the european union as a matter of the highest priority. the european union must develop a policy in this area and cooperate not only with the member states of the union but also with those countries which produce large quantities of timber in order to curb illegal logging and trade in goods whose production involves deforestation. the commission must also provide adequate funding for this effort and conclude the necessary trade agreements to ensure that the programme can be successful. finally, the issue of limiting both illegal logging and forest destruction caused either by fires, arson or by accidental events must also be addressed within the framework of the european union.
the commission mr president, illegal logging and deforestation have serious environmental impacts, reducing biodiversity and contributing to climate change. to address environmental damage caused by illegal logging and deforestation, the european union has since 2003 adopted an action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade, aimed at encouraging sustainable forest management. this action plan has not yet produced the desired results. according to the court of auditors of the european union, the €300 million distributed to 35 countries under the scheme has had a meagre impact. the commission should therefore take immediate action to combat illegal logging and deforestation. at the same time, mr vella, the union should give financial aid to greece to repair the damage suffered by producers and their plant and animal capital as a result of the recent fires in chios, euboea and corfu. the same must of course apply to cyprus, which also suffered from fires this year.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, exactly one year ago, at the request of the european citizens, we adopted the resolution on the right to water. we demanded then, in words, that the commission should in no way promote the privatisation of water companies in the context of economic adjustment programmes or any other union procedure and should permanently exclude water services from the rules of the internal market and from any trade agreement and provide them at affordable prices. yesterday, the quartet, in cooperation with the willing and obedient greek government, joined the super-tax on privatization of greece's water and sanitation for 99 whole years. fortunately, the greek minister of finance, euclides tsakalotos, has stated that, as long as he is minister, they will not be sold. it seems that the only thing left for us to do to defend both the dignity and the raison d'être of the european parliament and the weight of our resolutions is to force either the quartet to appoint mr tzacalotto as permanent minister of finance for the next 99 years or the commission to comply with our resolutions. unfortunately, mr president, both are equally unrealistic.
the commission mr president, erdoğan's statements calling into question the treaty of lausanne are particularly dangerous, as are those of the turkish republican party which raise non-existent sovereignty issues for 16 greek islands and raise the issue of grey zones and borders, thus perpetuating the age-old provocation expressed by the continuing violations of greek sea and air space, by the continuing provocations against cyprus, by the questioning of the exclusive economic zone. the greek-turkish alliance within nato and the so-called 'european borders' are revealed when the european union and nato encourage turkish aggression in the name of the eu-turkey agreement and the dichotomous solution being promoted in the cyprus problem. the fact that the commissioner of the european union is also raising the non-existent issue of the chamis shows how dangerous the european union and those who support it, such as the syriza government, are, since the european union is questioning borders and reinstating former nazi collaborators. the peoples must in their struggle be on guard against all forces which either appease or foster nationalist hatred.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr de jong, and the other rapporteurs. as the commissioner, mrs jurova, has said, we are moving into the area of criminal law and we are talking about the rights of suspects and accused persons, because of the need, thanks to this agreement which has already been secured, to adopt a directive which will substantially harmonise the laws of the individual member states. we all know that the right to legal protection of the suspect and the accused in a difficult situation and facing the possibility of deprivation of liberty must be guaranteed in practice and not just in theory. the commissioner has rightly pointed out that the quality of legal protection and legal aid that a suspect or an accused person can expect in practice often depends on his financial capabilities. the member state's response to this problem must be to guarantee the right of these persons to financial cover from special funds. the provisions of law ensuring the protection of such persons should also be harmonised by the member states. we are aware, of course, that these rights, such as the presumption of innocence, are guaranteed not only by the constitutions of the member states but also by national law based on international instruments such as the echr. we also see in the member states too many cases of suspects or accused persons who, both in preliminary and in the main proceedings, refer to the european court of justice, invoking article 6 of the echr, and accuse the member state in which they are, whether they are nationals of the member state or foreigners, of inaction in respect of the promotion and protection of their individual rights, and in particular of the rights guaranteed by the constitutions and by legislation of supranational importance. ladies and gentlemen, i know from my thirty years of experience as a lawyer, and in criminal law, that the member states have legal rules that protect and defend the rights of suspects and accused persons. but what we are seeking today and will be voting on tomorrow is the harmonization of the laws, so as to preserve the european construction from the divergences between the member states in relation to the different levels of protection they provide. the fact that all citizens of the european union can expect the same protection of their rights is ultimately in the interests of the rule of law and justice.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, today's debate is about strengthening the rights of citizens and the proper functioning of justice at european level. the right to be represented by a lawyer is one of the most fundamental aspects of the right to a fair trial, as enshrined in both the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights. in particular, in the light of the ongoing economic and social crisis affecting millions of european citizens, we must ensure that accused or suspected persons are able to be effectively represented before the authorities. the timely provision of legal assistance and the extension of its scope to any member state where evidence is being taken or other investigative measures are being carried out are imperative steps. at the same time, the obligation on member states to ensure the quality and independence of the legal aid provided, combined with the existence of legal remedies for infringements of this right, will contribute to safeguarding citizens' rights. i therefore believe that today's procedure can help to improve the position of european citizens and at the same time create a positive climate for intensifying cooperation between member states.
the commission proposes a text based on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions and the road map for strengthening the economic rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. however, ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states should not be limited to only two categories, namely suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who are deprived of their liberty and wanted persons subject to proceedings relating to the execution of a european arrest warrant. such a piecemeal approach neither enhances legal certainty nor clarifies the degree and quality of entitlement to legal aid. it is true that there are differences between member states as regards the quality and remuneration of legal aid provided. we believe that a horizontal legislation on legal aid and representation will only exacerbate the problems that already exist and will not lead to a solution.
mr president, the european commission has since 2013 adopted the proposal for a directive on temporary legal assistance for suspects or accused persons and on legal assistance in european arrest warrant proceedings, in accordance with article 6 of the echr, i.e. the european convention on human rights. this means that suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings should have the right of access to a lawyer, whether or not they are deprived of their liberty. the member states are thus obliged to provide adequate legal aid to persons who lack the necessary resources and who are suspected or accused of a criminal offence. in addition, each country of the union must provide legal aid to suspects or accused persons without undue delay and require the presence of a defence lawyer before any procedural action. finally, the right to legal aid must be based on control of the resources of the applicant and each member state must take measures to improve the quality of legal aid itself for suspects or accused persons in order to comply with the echr's imperative to ensure a fair trial.
mr president, we have here another report on the creation of impressions and nothing more. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. the guantanamo waterboarding, with a towel and a bottle of water, how do you ban it? in the best case scenario, we'll just manage to make the executions even more painful. already in the united states there is discussion of replacing the elusive and perhaps soon to be outlawed lethal injection with the gallows or the firing squad. all civilized people condemn torture. my view, however, is that the debate on the death penalty should be reopened. are we sure we want to send back to society perpetrators of particularly heinous crimes? some countries of the union have lenient penalties and overprotect the rights of the perpetrator, but ignore the rights of the victim. we're content with a minute's silence for the victims. it has been proven that serial killers, terrorists, drug lords continue their activities inside prison. why should they have more rights than their hundreds of victims?
madam president, the death penalty, torture and all forms of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment are prohibited by international and european treaties. in this context, the european regulation against torture must function effectively as a tool to protect people from violent treatment by imposing effective controls on items and activities used for capital punishment or torture. this objective requires an immediate reorganization of the european commission's controls on the trade in instruments of torture, a reorganization which, unfortunately, has been delayed on several levels. the advertising and sale of these products on the internet should therefore be prohibited. in particular, controls on exports of dual-use items included in the military equipment lists, which can also be used for torture, should be strengthened. i therefore believe that the european union cannot demand the ratification of international conventions against the death penalty in third countries and at the same time tolerate the use by the security forces here in the european union of practices and tools which are proven to result in permanent injury or even death.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change, because i believe that this will send a strong message from the leadership of the european union and its member states in their global efforts to combat climate change.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation on the european union's accession plan to the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change is a step in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ positive overall, although within his articles, there are also issues that do not concern the protection of the environment which the same ones who govern destroyed and are just now trying to save what is left.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change because, although the paris agreement is not enough to combat global warming, i consider it a small step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement is a landmark in the fight against climate change and in multilateral cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's report.
in writing. ‒ the as i have already said, the paris convention on climate change (cop21) did not create a clear framework for tackling climate change because, among other things, it did not address two major problems that we will have to deal with in the future. the first major problem is that of the production model responsible for global warming and the second is that of climate migration. the paris agreement (cop21) makes no reference to the status of climate refugee or migrant although, for the period 2008-2013 alone, their number is estimated at 166 million. finally, the procedure for ratifying that treaty at eu level and its adoption by the european parliament before the ratification procedure in the parliaments of the member states of the union has been completed is contrary to the letter and spirit of both the treaty on european union (teu) and the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu).
in writing. ‒ the the paris agreement on climate change, the product of temporary compromises between imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries, neither wants nor can deal with the acute environmental problems created by the capitalist mode of development, since it treats the environment as a means of increasing the profitability of business groups, while having a disastrous effect not only with the uncontrolled extraction of resources, but also with imperialist wars. the agreement focuses on the various 'pollutant trading systems' which, as mechanisms for the profitable buying and selling of pollution itself, have been shown to intensify environmental degradation. green technologies aim to open up new investment areas to monopolies, amid fierce competition, which the eu is spearheading, considering that its business groups have a comparative advantage. the result of this agreement will certainly be a worsening of environmental problems and the living conditions of ordinary families. only an economy and a society based not on capitalist profit but on the satisfaction of people's needs can ensure that the working man has a compatible and balanced impact on nature and the environment. for such a life the working people must take power and the economy into their own hands, breaking with capitalist barbarism, monopolies and their imperialist associations.
in writing. ‒ we believe that the paris agreement is not enough to tackle global warming, but it is nevertheless a small step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the the paris agreement on climate change, the product of temporary compromises between imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries, neither wants nor can deal with the acute environmental problems created by the capitalist mode of development, since it treats the environment as a means of increasing the profitability of business groups, while having a disastrous effect not only with the uncontrolled extraction of resources, but also with imperialist wars. the agreement focuses on the various 'pollutant trading systems' which, as mechanisms for the profitable buying and selling of pollution itself, have been shown to intensify environmental degradation. 'green' technologies are designed to open up new investment areas for the benefit of monopolies, in the midst of fierce competition, which the eu is promoting because it considers its business groups to have a comparative advantage. the result of this agreement will certainly be a worsening of environmental problems and of the living conditions of ordinary families. only an economy and a society based not on capitalist profit but on the satisfaction of people's needs can ensure that the working man has a compatible and balanced impact on nature and the environment. for such a life the working people must take power and the economy into their own hands, they must break with capitalist barbarity, monopolies and their imperialist associations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015, as the devastating effects of the 6.1 magnitude earthquake created multiple problems in the daily lives of the islanders. in such emergency situations, it is imperative that the european union show its solidarity with all the affected areas.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to support the ionian regions after the earthquake of november 2015 is a positive process that can provide solutions to the affected areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters, which is why i am voting in favour of mobilising the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015.
in writing. ‒ i am personally in favour of any decision to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance in relation to emergencies that arise. this case concerns the disaster in greece (earthquakes that struck the region of the ionian islands, namely the island of lefkada and the northern part of ithaca and kefalonia) on 17 november 2015. the greek authorities initially estimated the total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 65 919 000. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. the commission notes that the aid granted to the airport operator in the form of a reduction in the number of passengers and the number of seats in the airport is not compatible with the internal market. following the request made by greece, the commission granted on 18 march 2016 an advance of eur 164 798, representing 10% of the envisaged contribution from the fund, in accordance with article 4a (2) of the teu regulation. the total amount of aid to be paid shall be eur 1 651 834.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since it provides a well-needed assistance of eur 1.65 million for greece allowing the main infrastructure to be restored and the cultural heritage that was strongly affected by the 2015 earthquake to be protected, as well as to respond to the immediate needs of people in ionian islands.
in writing. ‒ i reject the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015 because i consider it to be complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the only 2,5% (i.e. eur 1 651 834) of the total amount (eur 66 073 345) estimated to have been incurred by the damage caused by the catastrophic earthquake in the ionian islands, in particular in leucada, ithaca and kefalonia, in november 2015, will be granted to greece by mobilising the 'eu solidarity fund', exposing the fraudulent nature of the allegations of eu 'solidarity'. the european union funds, of which only a small amount has been disbursed in the last 11 months, do not compensate for the losses suffered by private individuals, i.e. working people, self-employed people and other small businesses. as the european commission has repeatedly stated, what is financed is the restoration of infrastructure undertaken by business groups, while projects that do not generate large profits and therefore are not a priority for large capital are excluded. the syriza-anel government, which supports and applies the european union's guidelines to the letter, also has a great responsibility. while giving plenty of money and subsidies to business groups, it offers the earthquake victims, as well as the general public, only barbaric anti-people measures. the kke group voted in favour of the mobilisation of all the fund's funds, but stressed the real and urgent need for full compensation for the disasters to be paid to ordinary households and small businesses.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the only 2,5% (i.e. eur 1 651 834) of the total amount (eur 66 073 345) estimated to have been incurred by the damage caused by the catastrophic earthquake in the ionian islands, in particular in leucada, ithaca and kefalonia, in november 2015, will be granted to greece by mobilising the 'eu solidarity fund', exposing the fraudulent nature of the allegations of eu 'solidarity'. the european union funds, of which only a small amount has been disbursed in the last 11 months, do not compensate for the losses suffered by private individuals, i.e. working people, self-employed people and other small businesses. as the european commission has repeatedly stated, what is financed is the restoration of infrastructure undertaken by business groups, while projects that do not generate large profits and therefore are not a priority for large capital are excluded. the syriza-anel government, which supports and applies the european union's guidelines to the letter, also has a great responsibility. while giving plenty of money and subsidies to business groups, it offers the earthquake victims, as well as the general public, only barbaric anti-people measures. the kke group voted in favour of the mobilisation of all the fund's funds, but stressed the real and urgent need for full compensation for the disasters to be paid to ordinary households and small businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following an application from finland, as it is of major importance to assist beneficiaries in their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from finland on the case of microsoft employees. as this fund provides resources for the benefit of workers, i consider that the proposal has a positive purpose and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address the situation presented.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies, because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address the present situation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request submitted by finland), because i consider it to be complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address the situation presented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from sweden, as it is of major importance to provide assistance to beneficiaries made redundant in order to reintegrate them into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from finland in the case of ericsson employees. as this fund provides support for the benefit of workers, i consider that the proposal has a positive purpose and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address the situation.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies, because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address the situation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request by sweden), because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address the situation.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the request to lift the parliamentary immunity of george grammatikas. since the honourable member himself has stressed that he wants the proceedings to be concluded without hindrance in order to prove his innocence, which i firmly believe in, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of mr giorgos gratiakis following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on temporary legal assistance for suspects or accused persons deprived of their liberty and on legal assistance in european arrest warrant proceedings, because we must not forget that, at a time when more and more tools are being created to combat terrorism and other forms of crime, the right of defence of the accused is a foundation of a union based on the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on temporary legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of their liberty and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings is a good step in the effort to strengthen the right of the accused to a fair trial. we must always strive to improve the functioning of the judiciary and i believe that this report helps us to do so. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the ensuring a minimum level of judicial assistance in all member states should not be limited to two categories, namely suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who are deprived of their liberty and wanted persons who are subject to proceedings relating to the execution of a european arrest warrant. such a piecemeal approach neither enhances legal certainty nor clarifies the extent and quality of the right to legal aid.
in writing. ‒ the ensuring a minimum level of judicial assistance in all member states should not be limited to two categories, namely only suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who are deprived of their liberty and wanted persons who are subject to proceedings relating to the execution of a european arrest warrant. such a piecemeal approach neither enhances legal certainty nor clarifies the extent and quality of the right to legal aid. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on temporary legal assistance for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and legal assistance in european arrest warrant proceedings, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 4 october 2016 and because i consider that report to be complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the directive on legal aid for defendants who cannot afford a lawyer, including those arrested on the basis of a 'european extradition warrant', is in full accordance with the popular saying 'to burn you, john, to oil you'. while the eu and its member states are strengthening their law enforcement mechanisms (e.g. with the new regulation on the euro-police) and creating new ones, such as the 'european coast and border guard', the eu institutions pretend to care about rights, which they are stifling with a giant web of repression. the directive pursues two main eu objectives, firstly, the attempt to whitewash the vast web of repression and the attack on popular freedoms, first targeting the workers' and people's movement and, secondly, the imposition of a single system of eu criminal law rules with the same objective. the working people will only be able to enjoy their political freedoms, their individual, social and democratic rights, including the right to exercise power, when they take power into their own hands, by coming into conflict with the monopolies, their associations, their mechanisms and the exploitative system they serve.
in writing. ‒ the ensuring a minimum level of judicial assistance in all member states should not be limited to two categories, namely suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who are deprived of their liberty and wanted persons who are subject to proceedings relating to the execution of a european arrest warrant. such a piecemeal approach neither enhances legal certainty nor makes clear the extent and quality of the right to legal aid.
in writing. ‒ the the directive on legal aid for defendants who cannot afford a lawyer, including those arrested on the basis of a 'european extradition warrant', is in full accordance with the popular saying 'to burn you, john, to oil you'. while the eu and its member states are strengthening their law enforcement mechanisms (e.g. with the new regulation on the euro-police) and creating new ones, such as the 'european coast and border guard', the eu institutions pretend to care about rights, which they are stifling with a giant web of repression. the directive pursues two main eu objectives, firstly, the attempt to whitewash the vast web of repression and the attack on popular freedoms, first targeting the workers' and people's movement and, secondly, the imposition of a single system of eu criminal law rules with the same objective. the working people will only be able to enjoy their political freedoms, their individual, social and democratic rights, including the right to exercise power, when they take power into their own hands, by coming into conflict with the monopolies, their associations, their mechanisms and the exploitative system they serve.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain articles which may be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, because in this way and with its updated rules, the european union is setting universal standards for the elimination of torture.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain articles which may be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. especially in modern times, we must be strict about anything that involves torture or humiliating treatment of people. i think that this report helps to tighten up the rules, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against because we believe that the report will have no real effect and that there is no way to deny the means either for executions or for torture. we are opposed to torture in principle, but we believe that the death penalty should be reviewed, especially in cases of particularly heinous crimes.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i believe it will have no real effect, since there is no way to deny the means either for executions or for torture. i am against torture, but i think that the death penalty should be reviewed, especially in cases of particularly heinous crimes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. export controls at eu level are tools of external trade policy and serve a number of wider policy objectives. the 'regulation against torture' (ec) no 1236/2005 is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through controls of the items and activities that are being or could be used improperly for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since the report reaffirms the eu’s strong commitment to be the frontrunner in defence of human rights at global level, prohibiting the trade of goods which could be used for degrading treatment.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain articles which may be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 4/10/2016, and because i consider that report to be complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the regulation on the special permit for objects which are either directly intended or, by their nature, can be used for capital punishment or torture highlights the hypocrisy of the eu and its institutions. instead of prohibiting their production altogether, and especially of articles intended solely for such purposes, or imposing restrictions on their use for such purposes, they put alleged restrictions on their marketing, even though they know that these can be freely traded through various channels. the text of the agreement with the council, as it has been restored, is even worse than the original, since it removes any stricter provisions on their movement. it also removes the general clause which existed for examining, where appropriate, the actual intended use of any object which could be used for such purposes, while making the grant of a licence dependent on the knowledge of the dealers or brokers of the intended purpose constitutes a genuine mockery. it is not surprising that the european union is so sensitive to the death penalty and torture, that it is drowning people in blood in its imperialist wars and that its war industry is one of the most lucrative sectors of capital.
in writing. ‒ the report will have no real effect because there is no way to deny the means either for executions or for torture. we are opposed to torture on principle, but we believe that the death penalty should be reviewed, especially in cases of particularly heinous crimes.
in writing. ‒ the the regulation on the special permit for objects which are either directly intended or, by their nature, can be used for capital punishment or torture highlights the hypocrisy of the eu and its institutions. instead of prohibiting their production altogether, and especially of articles intended solely for such purposes, or imposing restrictions on their use for such purposes, they put alleged restrictions on their marketing, even though they know that these can be freely traded through various channels. the text of the agreement with the council, as it has been restored, is even worse than the original, since it removes any stricter provisions on their movement. it also removes the general clause which existed for examining, where appropriate, the actual intended use of any object which could be used for such purposes, while making the grant of a licence dependent on the knowledge of the dealers or brokers of the intended purpose constitutes a genuine mockery. it is not surprising that the european union is so sensitive to the death penalty and torture, that it is drowning people in blood in its imperialist wars and that its war industry is one of the most lucrative sectors of capital.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and the european police office (europol), as this will strengthen the fight against organised crime and improve cooperation in the field of international law enforcement.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and the european police office (europol). it is clear that the changes we are facing as a result of the migration issue and the economic crisis are leading to the need for more stringent controls. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think that this report does not cover all the issues sufficiently and that is why i have decided to withdraw.
in writing. ‒ china is a strategic partner of russia and the eu's close operational cooperation with china is important in the fight against organised crime. the issue of the protection of personal data is not relevant to the present case, since the agreement excludes the exchange of such data.
in writing. ‒ china is a strategic partner of russia and the eu's close operational cooperation with china is important in the fight against organised crime. the issue of the protection of personal data is not relevant to the present case, since the agreement excludes the exchange of such data. i therefore vote in favour of the europol-china agreement on strategic cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against since cooperation between two power enforcing agencies without having high human rights standards is not in conformity with the aims of our party and with our previous practice.
in writing. ‒ in voting on the report on the draft council implementing decision on the approval of the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol, i chose to abstain because the report is not complete.
in writing. ‒ china is a strategic partner of russia and the eu's close operational cooperation with china is important in the fight against organised crime. the issue of the protection of personal data is not relevant to the present case, since the agreement excludes any exchange of such data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020 because this cooperation is an important achievement, both at the level of acp and eu countries and at the level of their parliaments, to continuously improve the effectiveness of their cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the report on the future of the african, caribbean and pacific states' relations with the european union could contain very important elements for the development of relations between all the parties involved. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the report because we consider it to be a disguised example of neo-colonial policy, with direct interventions in the internal affairs of third countries. the union, by promising economic benefits, is exercising cultural imperialism by imposing its own values, which it has the vanity to consider to be universal.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020 because i believe that it is a disguised form of neo-colonial policy, with direct interventions in the internal affairs of third countries. the union, by promising economic benefits, is exercising cultural imperialism by imposing its own values, which it has the vanity to consider to be universal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against since the framework of future negotiations is in opposition to european values and does not respond to needs of the majority of the population in acp countries.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 3/10/2016 and because i consider that the report is neither complete nor well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the report is a disguised form of neo-colonial policy, with direct interventions in the interior of third countries. the union, by promising economic benefits, is exercising cultural imperialism in an attempt to impose its own values, which it has the vanity of considering to be universal.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, more than six years have already passed since the memorandum was implemented in greece, and the country has been turned into a vast social graveyard, since the hundreds of billions of euros given as loans have finally returned to the pockets of the lenders, instead of being invested in the greek economy. so, six stone years have passed in which the greek people experience poverty, destitution, unemployment and national humiliation on a daily basis, six stone years of the failed policy of the troika and the international loan sharks - a policy that has reduced gdp by 25% and in absolute figures by 47 billion euros and more, that has devastated the economy, that has filled greece with armies of millions of poor and unemployed and created caravans of young people who migrate en masse, that has made taxation a reality in the pockets and fortunes of impoverished greeks, that has socialized the banks' debts below the poverty line, that has reduced the losses of the greek population by 40% and has accumulated the savings of the greek population. this is your policy, mr moscovici, the policy of the troika, a policy which, instead of reducing the debt, has increased it. it was 123% of gdp in 2010 - it will reach 200% in 2016. it is a policy which has hoarded, rather than returned, the profits of the ecb and the central banks, a policy which refuses to cut greece's debt, when the european union does so in the case of ukraine and tunisia, a policy which has mortgaged and sold off, through the occupation fund, public property for a century and is hammering out the homes of the greeks, giving them to the crows. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that's enough, mr moscovici. the greek people can no longer stand poverty and unemployment and will soon throw the troika and the lenders out of greece. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer "blue card". mr president, it seems that you have not understood what is happening in greece. greece has so far, formally, taken out loans of over 240 billion euros. if that money had been invested in the greek economy, it would have taken off. we would not have had 1.5 million unemployed, we would not have had poor people, we would not have had a state of disintegration of the country. that is the central question: where did the loans go? they went back to the same lenders! only 4% was invested in the greek economy. the problem is not solved by the troika's recipes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: to you, mr moscovici, who have given us encouraging figures and messages on the prospects for the recovery of the greek economy, and to you, mr balz, who have been quick to attack the commission, i have to say that, unfortunately for you and for the right-wing party, greece was not bankrupted by syriza and the tsipras government but by your friends in the new democracy, who left behind a deficit of 15.5% in 2009 and a public debt of 125%. the current government is trying, against all odds, to bring the country back to growth, reduce unemployment and curb the red tape, tax evasion, the client state that your friends created. but to make this a reality, mr moscovici, it is not enough for greece to adhere to the agreement and to complete the second assessment quickly, by november. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not only referring to the short-term measures you have mentioned, but also to the medium-term measures agreed at the eurogroup on 24 may: all must be implemented. the intention of mr schäuble and the german government to postpone everything about the debt and to sacrifice themselves on the altar of their own petty political expediencies is unacceptable and does not help anyone, neither the greek people nor the european common effort itself. the 27 must prove, after brexit, that they are united in their efforts to achieve growth, in the face of a dogmatic austerity that has failed. the greek people, a proud nation, has suffered far more than any other people and we must show them, by deeds and not by words, that what they are experiencing is not the myth of sisyphus. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question for the blue card madam president, to solve the problem of greece, we must be honest with ourselves. the crisis in greece was created in the lost decade of the 1980s by the populism of that era. unfortunately, that populism moved to syriza in 2014. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
answer "blue card". i thank mr kefalogiannis for his statement - since it was not a question, because it allows me to add that, in addition to the great responsibility of his party, new democracy, for the bankruptcy of the country, the governments of pasok also have great responsibilities.
madam president, mr moscovici, the troika's theatrical performance in greece is heading towards its final act, the final part of the programme, as the memoranda have now been renamed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, the incompetent governments of my country, whether of the right, the left or the centre, those which are only interested in the exercise of power, have led the greek people into poverty and destitution. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. if the greeks do not react, they will witness the total destruction of the country, since the union and the international monetary fund are no longer lending and since the country's entry into the markets, if it does, will be on predatory terms. at the same time, they must demand the cancellation of the illegal and odious debt. but they must not make the same mistake and put their trust in the systemic, so-called democratic structures that destroyed my country but in a nationalist government that will only be interested in the recovery, progress and development of greece.
i see you're a big supporter of privatization. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you consider it privatisation that fourteen regional airports in greece have been taken over by a state-owned company in germany ... (the president interrupts the speaker because he took the floor by mistake)
the question is "blue card". you insist on talking about the implementation of the agreements. among the agreements reached in may was the relief of greek debt. but most of the people who have spoken here are like amnesiacs. they don't remember anything about these decisions and agreements. why two meters and two scales, ladies and gentlemen? why do you not say that the agreements must be implemented not only by the greek government but also by the troika in order to proceed with debt relief?
the question is "blue card". thank you, colleague. i agree with everything you said, but i want to ask you a question. you said that greece has always been poor and that it will remain poor. do you know that greece, before these memorandum measures were imposed on it, was not poor? do you know that the greeks had a life expectancy much higher than the average of some other european union countries, of those considered to have a strong economy? do you know that this was done to take away from greece all its sea and land wealth... (the president interrupts)
the greek people would understand why the european union cannot improve and only gets worse. the day before yesterday, the chemicals that struck 80 year old pensioners protesting against the cut in their pensions by more than 50% were jointly held by the tsipras government and the european union. because, whether it is development with new democracy and pasok or now with the newly formed syriza neo-democrats, this development is built only on poverty, wars and refugees. that is why syriza is the best kid and gets congratulations from both the capital and the european union... (the president interrupts the speaker temporarily because there is a problem with the translation into french. the speaker begins from the beginning) if the greek people saw you here, they would understand why the european union can only get worse and can in no way get better. the day before yesterday, the chemicals that struck the 80-year-old pensioners in athens who were protesting because their pensions were cut by more than 50% were held by both the tsipras/syriza government and the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. that is why tsipras and syriza are getting congratulations from capital and the european union: for their dirty work. whether it was called debt relief or flexibility of eu rules, none of what was tried brought relief to the people. all we had were new anti-working-class measures and subsidies, conditional on the profitability of capital, and a few low-paid jobs. social security was torn down! the public property has been handed over! the second evaluation buries collective agreements, unleashes mass layoffs and shrinks the right to strike! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, many of my fellow citizens have risen up against the tsipras government because of its hypocrisy and incompetence. yesterday, thousands of pensioners demonstrated in the center of athens denouncing their ridicule by the government. mr tsipras promised a thirteenth pension to the low-income pensioners in order to come to power, win their vote, and instead abolished a social benefit that supplemented their income. police yesterday violently dispersed the pensioners using chemical gas. all the polls are condemning the tsipras government 80 and up to 85 per cent of citizens think it is moving in the wrong direction. half of those who voted for syriza in september 2015 have already turned their backs on him. with the left in power, austerity became harsher and less effective. the minister for finance, mr tsakalotos, signs everything in brussels as a reformer and denies almost everything in athens. for example, in the greek parliament he pledged not to make the privatisations he has agreed to and he is presented as the leader of the left wing of syriza. political camouflage raises the social cost of the policy being implemented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i wonder why. i would like to see the same line prevailing in the european parliament as that which led to the change of leadership in the spanish socialist workers' party, which would help greece to emerge from the crisis.
mr moscovici, you are lying. you've come here to embellish the third memorandum and the state of the greek economy. for you, today, the greek government is europe's best student of austerity and privatization. you're both accomplices. you have driven 40% of the greek people to live below the poverty line. in the name of debt service and growth, wages and pensions are being cut and taxes are being raised. labour relations are breaking down and unemployment has risen to record levels. socialist reactions are met with repression and chemicals, as was done yesterday with the pensioners, but you will tell me that this is also happening in paris. mr moscovici, you are hypocritical and speculative, because together with the greek government you are selling off the public wealth of the country. the germans took the airports, the italians took the railroads. for comparison, the transfer of frenchman pogba cost twice as much as this acquisition. the chinese have taken the ports and your friends, the french businessmen, are about to buy the water. you gave the green light to the market predators to take the red loans and evict the greek citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the greek people are drowning in taxes and poverty, the greek youth are emigrating, it has failed and it must be overturned. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer "blue card". i thank the honourable member for his question, but i would ask him not to dictate to me what exactly i propose or what i have proposed or what my party proposes to do about this situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement with the united states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. you insist on selling everything. yesterday you demanded that even water be privatized. in seven years of implementing a harsh austerity programme - rescue programmes, as you call them - you have achieved what war has achieved. you've reached record unemployment, the highest in europe. you have succeeded in getting one in three greeks to live below the poverty line. you have turned 300,000 young scientists into economic migrants. you turned the pensioners into beggars. today, commissioner, what macroeconomic situation do you want to discuss? the results of the memoranda strip the greek economy of every tool for growth. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. so, if the disaster continues, this will be progress, and it is being presented as a trade-off in the debt debate, when you know very well that if and when it starts it will be pretentious and without substance, because it will be about a dead economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the answer may lie in the recent events at deutsche vank.
madam president, commissioner moscovici, the completion of the greek programme is threatened by two black holes: overtaxation and the deficit implementation of structural reforms. first of all, in greece everything that moves is taxed and you are responsible for it. you creditors have signed off on a tax mix that is exacerbating the recession and not giving greece a growth outlet. instead of insisting on greater tax compliance, you have accepted the tax extinction of all small and mediumsized enterprises in greece. secondly, you creditors are simply passing laws on structural reforms without monitoring their implementation. from the reduction of bureaucracy to the privatizations - not the ones launched by the new democracy government but those that syriza should do - we have seen little results. mr moscovici, reducing the cost of servicing the greek public debt is an obligation you undertook in november 2012 and specified in march 2016. it is essential that you fulfil your commitment to stabilize the landscape in greece. but at the same time my country needs another policy mix to get back on its feet without a memorandum after 2018, it needs a policy of state reduction, tax reduction and emphasis on privatization and structural change, so that we can be in the narrow modern core of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, you have informed us that the first evaluation will be concluded in a few days' time. i'd like to remind you that this is the 13th evaluation. yeah, it sounds crazy, but this is the 13th positive review. today the real economy is at its worst. there are capital controls, increasing and no longer serviced overtaxation, brain drain. why did we end up here? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so the partners lend only what keeps greece alive in the crisis and the governments govern without having to clash with the powerful client state. because that is exactly the problem, that is the key and the uniqueness of the greek crisis: the model of governance based on the dual patron-client and that cancels out any effort of development, transparency and the fight against corruption. even if we do, at some point, get to that debt restructuring that makes it debt serviceable, our production model is obsolete and inefficient. we therefore call for the econ working group to be upgraded, which will report on the implementation of non-fiscal reforms, because without a fundamental change in administration and without cuts in the business environment, taxation and justice, we will never escape the threat of grexit. only parliament can help. six-year governments, the commission and the imf refuse to do so.
the draft budget presented yesterday to the greek parliament is a clear demonstration of the fiscal impasse in which greece has found itself in the last year and a half of the government of a left-right clique. as an indication, the ministry of finance forecasts a further eur 326 million cut in pensions, eur 440 million in the esdp, new taxes of over eur 1,5 billion in the hope of closing the year with a primary surplus of 2%. at the same time, of course, the government ministers themselves are sabotaging any reform effort that would bring investment and buying time, since we allow them to, to continue the tax raid without reforms. the burdens are shifted to the citizens and their property is sold off. the problem, of course, is not the illusions and the authoritarianism of a government that tries to control the media, the judiciary and the banks, but the hypocrisy and apathy of europe that postpones everything and all decisions until after the german elections. we play petty political games instead of supporting civilians, we give them extensions because it might be convenient for us in relation to the refugee issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the debt relief is being carried over to after the german elections, it seems, and it will prove to be too little, too late. the country is strangled by irrational demands for budget surpluses. what we need at this moment is to solve a problem not of ideology but of simple arithmetic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary deficit is not reduced to a level that would be unreasonable. these are conversations that should have started yesterday. we owe solidarity and honesty to the people, that's the point and nothing else, to raise a flag of leftism that seduces or even conveniently some people in here.
madam president, the institutions and the current government are forecasting for the greek economy growth of 2.7% for 2017. we all want to see this goal achieved, but achieving it requires, among other things, a dramatic increase in total annual public and private investment. has the syriza government created the right environment to attract investors? do you think, commissioner, that it is realistic to forecast growth of 2.7% in 2017 with such taxation and additional taxes of four billion in the 2017 budget, when, for example, the total inflows of foreign investment capital in 2015 showed a decrease of 73% compared to 2014 and when greece is falling in a recent report of the world economic forum by five places in the international competitiveness ranking? thank you very much.
madam president, the opening up of the loan market, which is a commitment of the last programme, is the greatest transfer of national wealth since the population exchange of 1922. non-performing loans are equivalent to 60% of gdp. if we do not introduce fairness and transparency into this process, inequalities will become monstrous and we will be led to a social explosion. i would like to ask the commissioner: why is it that greek borrowers are not allowed to buy back their loans from themselves or their guarantors at a low price, as is the case in cyprus, 45 days before they are sold to investment funds? if the moral hazard is that strategic defaulters who can but do not pay will take advantage of this opportunity, then we must set strict conditions, because otherwise there is another, greater moral hazard: those who want but cannot - and are the vast majority of the greek people - to lose their property and, as prices have collapsed, to remain hostages of debt themselves and their children, without being able to make a fresh start in their lives.
madam president, the memoranda which were the price of intergovernmental lending for a number of euro-area member states suffered from the outset, since there was no guarantee that their principal architect, the international monetary fund, would respect primary european law and in particular the charter of fundamental rights of the union. in practice we have seen excessive restrictions on social rights in particular, and this has translated in greece into dramatic material deprivation for a large part of the population, an increase in deaths due to deteriorating public health, a decrease in the number of births and the emigration of hundreds of thousands of unemployed young people abroad. if the european union is to show basic respect for the fundamental rights which are supposed to be the basis of its existence, there must be bold relief of greece's transnational debt so that the economy and society can be put on a sustainable track. thank you, sir.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the forecasts that claim this will once again fall tragically out, whereas the same experts were predicting a return to growth from 2012. in reality, the famous programmes are nothing but the nonsense of incompetent technocrats who are playing with the lives of millions of greeks. we can no longer tolerate this. the international monetary fund has already admitted its serious mistakes and that the programmes are essentially politically driven. the austerity policy of overtaxation, cutting wages and pensions, dismantling social security funds and mortgaging public assets for the benefit of creditors has led to impoverishment, humanitarian crisis and thousands of suicides. the solution for greece is one: unilateral cancellation of the illegal debt and prosecution of those responsible, liberation from the shackles of the euro - a currency that is destructive for our country and probably for other countries in the future - and, finally, a return to domestic production and tariffs on products that are competitive with greek products or can be produced in greece. thank you, sir.
madam president, those who claim that there is economic growth in greece either do not know what is happening, or they do know but do not want to admit that what is happening in greece, namely the memoranda, is something that has been deliberately imposed. there was no reason for this to happen and greece was the scapegoat to save the eurozone, the euro, some french and german banks and, above all, to take away from greece its wealth on land, underground and under the sea. how can there be growth in greece when it has been saddled with a massive, illegal and unsustainable debt, which the international loan sharks do not want to alleviate? how can there be development in greece when the european union has trapped millions of illegal immigrants there? how can there be growth in greece when no money is allocated to development but it is given by the dropper? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the point today is to make the crisis an opportunity. but both sides make mistakes. what are the mistakes on the part of greece? excessive taxation, bigotry, populism and minimal structural reforms have for many years now been destroying the productive fabric of the economy, especially in the private sector, and small and mediumsized enterprises, by devaluing real estate. example one: in the banks we have 120 billion deposits and we have 125 billion red loans. the second example, to cover the objectives as mr moscovici said: the public sector's liabilities to the private sector are 9 billion, 5% of greece's gross national product. what are europe's mistakes? the management logic and the phobic syndromes. if europe wants to turn problems like greece into opportunities, then europe must take steps forward, and such steps can only be taken if the economic integration of the european union becomes a reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the fact that the greek people have been subjected to an unprecedented test in recent years is well known. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. if everyone had acted in time, greece would not have been suffering so much from the consequences of the crisis, nor would our partners have been constantly called upon to vote for new support packages. also, if the eu had supported the country's reform forces when they needed to, the populist backlash of recent years that led to even tougher fiscal measures would not have happened. the greek debt is not sustainable at this point. something has to be done. whether we call it a lightening, an extension or a restructuring is of little value. that is a reality that everyone will have to come to terms with. the greek government itself, of course, bears the greatest responsibility and should therefore immediately proceed with the necessary reforms. however, the program's obsession with taxes leaves little room for optimism. the country needs real investment and growth. no matter how much you raise taxes, if the country doesn't restart the real economy, it's not going to get out of the crisis.
madam president, there is no doubt that corruption is a phenomenon that is seen everywhere. it is an inevitable condition that has been present since antiquity and, unfortunately, still appears in the present age: people beyond suspicion, in prestigious positions, with high salaries, people who have solved their financial problem for years, are surprising the international community with the corruption they commit. recent well-known examples are the cases of current and former european union commissioners and the bahama leaks financial scandal. a characteristic of these people is a complete lack of moral boundaries, ethics and a sense of responsibility. so instead of using their high positions to benefit those who have put their trust and confidence in them, they use these positions to serve their own illicit personal interests. we must try to limit the phenomenon because it is impossible to eradicate it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering. )
madam president, the code of conduct for commissioners, as set out in 2011, requires them to declare all financial or assets that could lead to a conflict of interest, just as has happened with former commission president barroso, who now found a warmth in goldman sachs. the commission is also aware of the case of mr juncker in connection with luxleaks. the panama papers, the bahama papers, and luxleaks, have shown the involvement of political actors with financial interests in order to provide tax relief and tax evasion for multinationals. however, the code of conduct does not include all the european parliament's recommendations on commissioners' declarations of financial interests, so it does not specify which elements will lead to a conflict of interest. in addition, no sanctions are provided for certain breaches of the code of conduct. we therefore need effective european union legislation now to close this wound.
madam president, hundreds of illegal immigrants are crowding into calais, france, every day and at night they are trying to cross the channel tunnel to get across to britain. i think it is wrong to try to look at the situation in calais in isolation. it is just another symptom of the larger problem of illegal immigration. i insist on the term "illegal immigration" and not "refugee". most of these people are not refugees, but economic migrants. if they move without the required documents and permits, they are illegal immigrants. we must do everything we can to ensure that refugees have a decent life in the first country they enter after leaving and that they are returned to their homes as soon as possible. their children must continue to be educated in their own languages so that they are ready to reintegrate into the societies of their countries. economic migrants should return to their countries and come legally only after expressing interest and knowing before embarking on their journey whether they will be accepted. if this is implemented in just a few weeks we will have solved most of the problem, including calais.
there is a blue card from mr gericke, but i ask for his understanding and that of all of you. there's a long delay in the agreed timetable, and so, like previous vps, i'm not going to give out blue cards.
your honor, the calais jungle is the french version of the idonee. the situation for refugees, although few in number compared to illegal immigrants, is tragic. the situation of the inhabitants of the area is even more tragic, as their lives and property are daily put at risk. the truck drivers transporting goods from calais to britain are desperate and many of them are rightly enraged. the situation is out of control and the french government of hollande, like the greek government, is blaming the local government of calais and the citizens who are reacting. finally, the most tragic of all, bordering on the absurd, is to label as racist and xenophobic anyone who tries to save his national identity and livelihood from the hordes of illegal immigrants. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the union, and that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the union. that's why they're elected, anyway, don't forget that.
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but in the case of calais, the eu decides to act because the situation threatens the movement of trucks, and therefore trade. but it does not do the same for the decongestion of the islands of the eastern aegean from refugees and illegal immigrants. on the contrary, as a recent statement by the commission has shown, brussels has expressed its opposition to the movement of some of the 14,000 refugees and illegal immigrants from the islands of the eastern aegean to mainland greece. in calais, france understands what the islands of the eastern aegean as a whole are experiencing. it is obvious, and i have stressed this many times, that the crisis will not be confined to the areas currently hosting refugees and illegal immigrants. the situation in calais is already affecting traffic between france and the united kingdom. as in the case of calais and as in the case of greece, the member states of the european union must act in a coordinated and solidarity-based manner. this means that the mechanism for relocating refugees from greece and italy to other eu member states should be operational, that there should be returns of illegal immigrants and, of course, that the traffickers' networks should be dealt with.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the interrail card for europe, 18th birthday present (2016/2917 ((rsp)).
mr weber, you will receive many messages in your e-mail after mr van de camp's proposal, i see convergence in green sensibilities here among various political groups, well, we are doing well.
mr president, the interrail card for europe, which will be offered to every citizen of the union on its 18th anniversary, is designed to improve the possibility of cross-border travel. it is a positive idea, but the debate has shown that it is essentially a german pre-election initiative which is quite expensive, since it costs three billion euros, whereas the youth employment guarantee will cost, as we know, six billion euros at a time when europe is full of armies of unemployed people, and of unemployed people from the european south. i also believe that the initiative should not absorb funds from other european programmes for education and training and certainly not from unemployment programmes. it should also be stressed that if the initiative is to continue, then there should be a level playing field for all citizens of the union, and in particular for the inhabitants of island regions. finally, i believe that funds should be made available to strengthen the european union's rail networks so that the interrail card can be used in future for safe railway infrastructure.
mr president, we live in the information and communications age, a phase in which human needs are largely served electronically. the information and telecommunications technologies are providing new opportunities for the world's economies and businesses to grow and become more functional. it is a growing, innovative sector whose central importance cannot be questioned. for these services to operate effectively on a continent with as many borders as europe, firstly, network neutrality ensuring equal free access for consumers and businesses is required and secondly, the abolition of roaming charges, which will contribute to the free movement of persons and services and to the enhancement of the competitiveness of smes, so that electronic customs offices are not created. the 'roaming' must therefore be abolished immediately. i would remind you that the original target was to abolish it in 2015. the commission, succumbing to pressure from telephone companies, changed it for 2017 and with conditions. finally, gentlemen, respect the citizens.
mr president, i have stressed many times in this chamber the importance of combating economic crime, tax evasion and tax avoidance within the european union. it is really outrageous that tax-avoidance policies are being imposed on greece, and that the very people who are imposing this policy are turning a blind eye to the operation of tax havens within the european union, tax havens that profit from tax evasion in greece and other countries of the south. why is olaf, which was set up to fight corruption and fraud in the member states, doing nothing to help with this task? why is the commission doing nothing to protect whistleblowers better, people who are now threatened with prison sentences in luxembourg? so why should citizens trust the european public prosecutor's office in the european union now that it is trying to get its hands on economic crime cases that have hitherto been the responsibility of national authorities? these are important questions, mr president.
the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the draft implementing measure on the international financial reporting standard (ifrs) 9 by adding a new paragraph to the text of the draft implementing measure. according to the european union, international financial reporting standards should improve the quality of financial reporting and enable investors to make informed decisions, thereby contributing to the stability of financial markets. however, should the audit of the international financial reporting standard 9 reveal potential negative effects on long-term investment and financial stability, in particular as regards the downward impact on banks' own funds, the commission should take immediate action to re-define that standard. for this reason, the commission should cooperate with the competent authorities on international financial reporting standards with a view to achieving financial stability.
the commission the european council will be meeting in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the situation in the middle east. but the european union's behaviour so far raises the question: is it willing to deal with these issues in a way that serves the interests of its peoples? and if so, do they have the ability to do so? the european union has the power to force turkey to stop sending illegal immigrants to greece, for example. can the european union apply the quota to the distribution of migrants in all the countries of europe so that greece will no longer be a place of accumulation of impoverished and poor people? the european union has the ability to force turkey to recognise the republic of cyprus and to stop blackmailing it? does the european union have the ability and the will to implement a trade policy that will put multinational companies on the sidelines and support european industries, agriculture and agricultural products? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the gatt. and finally, does it have the political courage to review its relations with russia and to review the policy it has been pursuing up to now, which has led to a stalemate in relations between the two countries, to the detriment of both countries' interests? we shall see in a few days whether reason will prevail or obsessions and ideals.
the commission the european union is facing a very difficult situation. what are we looking at? an arena of acute competition, brexit, underground conflicts, groupings of states. further european integration, but also centrifugal tendencies at the same time. there is poverty and unemployment everywhere. competition with china, with the united states - where the transatlantic agreement is in difficulty, with russia - where the union's intervention in ukraine has repercussions and sanctions weigh on the backs of the peoples of the union. the european union is not just weak on the refugee issue. it is a deliberate refusal to face up to the victims of its interventions, the refugees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the situation is one of danger and danger of a general conflict, the victims of which will not be those who are the instigators of the competition, but the people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the common denominator is always the attack on the peoples, inside and outside the union, which will escalate as the capitalist crisis deepens. the european union is not getting better, it is getting worse. the solution: to turn popular indignation into a class struggle for overthrow.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i believe that this is largely due to the fact that too many member states do not comply with the relocation obligation. it is something that has been decided; unfortunately it is not being implemented. 66,400 relocations will have to be made from greece. so far, there have been 4,077, based on the data you provided. you realize that this situation cannot continue. greece cannot tolerate any more refugees and especially no more illegal immigrants. in addition, 14,000 refugees and other illegal immigrants are now crammed onto the aegean islands. something has to be done. there are clashes between refugees in the host areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the forthcoming european council is notable not so much for its agenda as for the issues not on the agenda. it is not on the agenda that in hungary, and even more so in poland, far-right governments are seeking and attempting to build semi-authoritarian regimes, in violation of the union's fundamental principles, such as respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. but of course the union itself, in its attitude towards the member states of the south, for example, shows the same lack of respect for other fundamental rights, such as the social rights of people, which must also be protected. the union must return to its founding and fundamental values and protect fundamental rights in their entirety because if it does not, i fear that the british exit will be just the first of a series of exits by other states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as this would establish a system enabling the contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to such situations.
in writing. ‒ the vote was on the report authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. as this is a matter of improving the framework for the protection of citizens and in particular children, no objections were raised from either side and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the we consider the text to be positive because it is necessary that the hague convention on the abduction of children be ratified by all states. this will free the hands of the authorities to cooperate both in the worldwide investigations and in the repatriation of the victim. one of the most important problems faced is that of parents who are separated and come from different countries. the treaty simplifies efforts to find a solution in favour of the child.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because the hague convention on child abduction needs to be ratified by all states. this frees the authorities to cooperate both in the field of international investigations and in the repatriation of the victim. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the treaty makes it easier to find a solution for the child.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vital instrument. it has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention establishes a system that enables states parties to cooperate in resolving situations of international child abduction. it is therefore necessary, following the accession of peru to the convention, to adopt a council decision authorising the two member states which have not yet accepted peru's accession, namely austria and romania, to do so. this will allow the convention between peru on the one hand and the european union as a whole on the other to enter into force.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the hague convention on child abduction needs to be ratified by all states. this frees up the authorities to cooperate both in the field of international investigations and in the repatriation of the victim. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the treaty makes it easier to find a solution for the child.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, thereby establishing a system enabling the contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to such situations.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report authorising certain member states, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. as this is a matter of improving the framework for the protection of citizens and in particular children, no objections were raised from either side and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the we consider the text to be positive because it is necessary that the hague convention on the abduction of children be ratified by all states. this will free the hands of the authorities to cooperate both in the worldwide investigations and in the repatriation of the victim. one of the most important problems faced is that of parents who are separated and come from different countries. the treaty simplifies efforts to find a solution in favour of the child.
in writing. ‒ the i vote against the report on the proposal for a council decision authorizing certain member states, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because the hague convention on child abduction needs to be ratified by all states. this frees up the authorities to cooperate both in the field of international investigations and in the repatriation of the victim. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vital instrument. it has also been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention establishes a system that enables states parties to cooperate in resolving situations of international child abduction. it is therefore necessary, following the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, to adopt a council decision authorising the member states (with the exception of denmark, which is excluded from the union's civil justice policy, and the netherlands, which have already accepted the accession of kazakhstan) to accept that accession. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan on the one hand and the european union as a whole on the other.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the hague convention on child abduction needs to be ratified by all states. this frees up the authorities to cooperate both in the field of international investigations and in the repatriation of the victim. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the treaty makes it easier to find a solution for the child.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, thereby establishing a system enabling the contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to such situations.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report authorizing certain member states, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. as this is a matter of improving the framework for the protection of citizens and in particular children, no objections were raised from either side and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the we consider the text to be positive because it is necessary that the hague convention on the abduction of children be ratified by all states. this will free the hands of the authorities to cooperate both in the worldwide investigations and in the repatriation of the victim. one of the most important problems faced is that of parents who are separated and come from different countries. the treaty simplifies efforts to find a solution in favour of the child.
in writing. ‒ the i vote against the report on the proposal for a council decision authorizing certain member states, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because the hague convention on child abduction needs to be ratified by all states. this frees the authorities to cooperate both in the field of international investigations and in the repatriation of the victim. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vital instrument. it has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention establishes a system that enables states parties to cooperate in resolving situations of international child abduction. it is therefore necessary, following the accession of south korea to the convention, to adopt a council decision authorising member states (with the exception of denmark, which is excluded from the union's civil justice policy, and the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which have already accepted the accession of south korea) to accept the accession of that country. this will allow the convention between south korea on the one hand and the european union as a whole on the other to enter into force.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an essential instrument, ratified by all the eu member states in order to condemn child abuses. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states to settle international cases in child abduction. following the accession of south korea to the convention, a council decision is therefore necessary to authorise the member states to accept the accession of south korea. i voted in favour of this, to allow the convention’s implementation between south korea and the entire european union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the hague convention on child abduction needs to be ratified by all states. this frees the authorities to cooperate both in the field of international investigations and in the repatriation of the victim. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments for food and food security in the world, as it addresses several important issues such as tackling malnutrition, undernutrition and food waste.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments for food and food security in the world is a positive process of highlighting europe's role and strengthening the effort to find solutions to the problem of feeding the world's population. the resolution aims to promote new proposals and ideas, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the motion for a resolution because, despite the good direction it had taken initially, it has subsequently ended up in a perverse way supporting private interests and genetically modified products.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the eu's global objectives and commitments on food and food security on the planet, as the motion for a resolution, while initially in the right direction, then in a perverse way promotes private interests and mutants.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the next steps towards achieving the eu's global objectives and commitments on food and food security in the world, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 3/10/2016 and because i consider it to be sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the resolution, while initially in the right direction, then in a perverse way promotes private interests and mutants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust because i support its creation, but certain changes to the commission's proposal by the council endanger the independence and effectiveness of any such undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the the motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust had some positive elements. the promotion of proceedings that will cause significant harm to individuals or businesses acting to the detriment of all european citizens, particularly in cases of tax evasion, is a positive thing. however, these procedures cannot proceed unless we secure the rights of all citizens and a specific regulatory framework. since that has not yet been achieved, i have decided to step aside.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution is moving in the right direction, because the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust can jointly contribute to the fight against fraud, in particular that linked to the vat directive and vat revenue, provided, of course, that the observations in the motion for a resolution are taken into account when drafting the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution as it is moving in the right direction. the eppo and eurojust may, together, contribute to the fight against fraud, in particular that linked to the vat directive and vat revenue. it is only necessary, when drafting the rules of procedure, to take account of the observations contained in the motion for a resolution.
in writing. i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 5/10/2016, and because the motion for a resolution is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution is moving in the right direction, as the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust can, together, help to combat fraud, in particular that linked to the vat directive and vat revenue. it is only necessary, when drafting the rules of procedure, to take account of the observations contained in the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the euro-message is being promoted in the name of 'fighting corruption', a convenient excuse for the creation of yet another reactive mechanism gradually reinforced by other powers to the detriment of the interests of workers, with corresponding delegations of powers by the member states in the field of criminal law. it is carefully concealed that eu funds, the product of heavy taxation of the people, are given as hot money through various programmes (esf, juncker package, etc.) to monopolies and business groups. this is the great challenge to the people and it is legitimate. in any event, the existing and condemnable phenomena of squandering taxpayers' money could be tackled by the competent authorities of the member states. the only way to meet the needs of the workers and their own interests is to strengthen their struggle against the eu, against its reactionary mechanisms and the monopolies they serve.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases, because europe is a social market economy with a dynamic labour market, efficient social security systems and sustainable economic growth for its citizens.
in writing. ‒ the the motion for a resolution on the need to adopt a european policy of reindustrialisation, particularly in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases, contained positive elements. we are indeed called upon to solve the problem of the continuing decline of a large part of european enterprises, which directly affects the lives of thousands of european workers. however, we cannot support proposals which are directed solely at strengthening and supporting industrial units, unless this is combined with the corresponding protection of workers, but also with specific obligations at economic and environmental level. therefore i refused.
in writing. ‒ we are clearly in favour of reindustrialising europe, as we believe that this is the only way to real growth and prosperity. however, we are opposed to the way in which the union is seeking to achieve it because we think it will prove ineffective and because we disagree with many of the priorities it sets. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i am clearly in favour of reindustrialising europe, as i believe that this is the only way to real growth and prosperity. however, i am opposed to the way in which the union is seeking to achieve it because i do not believe it will be effective and also because i am opposed to many of the priorities it sets. i therefore vote against all the proposals.
in writing. ‒ referring to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14/9/2016, i vote against the joint motion for a resolution because it is neither complete nor substantiated.
in writing. ‒ we are clearly in favour of reindustrialising europe, as we believe that this is the only way to real growth and prosperity. however, we are opposed to the way in which the union is seeking to achieve it, as we believe it will not be effective, and we are also opposed to many of the priorities it sets.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the blue card. i am not sure that there is a reasonable person who would approve of the bombing of civilians by anyone. i would like to ask you why you do not propose that the european union evacuate all civilians from the districts of aleppo held by isis so that the jihadists can no longer use these civilians as human shields and there are no more civilian casualties.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. that is why both sides' promises of a ceasefire have not been implemented, and why the peace talks at the un have proved to be of no avail. two nuclear powers, russia and iran, are backing the assad government. the united kingdom, france, the netherlands, belgium, denmark and germany, under the auspices of the nuclear-armed united states, are trying to overthrow the assad government. turkey, openly opposed to the ypg, the syrian kurdish army and secretly dealing with daesh and the jihadists who are the enemies of everyone else. this turkey you suddenly considered a reliable power and a reliable country in the region, because you were convinced by nato, and you give it aid, money and promises. that's hypocrisy. the member states of the european union are supporting a war under the table and driving people into misery, but the union itself is standing out for the humanitarian aid it gives to refugees, humanitarian aid that is being exploited by ngos and soros. there is only one solution: work with russia and fight daesh, not syria.
the commission mr president, with the end of the ceasefire, the situation in syria is critical. first, daesh must be defeated for there to be peace. but the defeat of daesh directly depends on the end of the civil war in syria and the launching of a viable peace process, a process that is respected by all sides and strictly limits external interference in the fight against daesh. but as long as the war in syria continues, the refugee flows to europe will continue. in syria, turkey is known to play a dirty role, supporting daesh and attacking the kurds. the aim of erdoğan is to overturn the treaty of lausanne, as he has said, by threatening greece and by harassing the greek aegean islands and the sovereignty of my country. but the sultan should know that his threats do not pass. but, mr korčok, representative of the presidency, what is the presidency's position on this serious matter? will he let erdoğan threaten greece and the european union?
the commission mr president, after almost four years of negotiations, the colombian government and the farc rebels signed a peace agreement on 26 september, with the aim of ending the conflict between them which has lasted for almost half a century. this is expected to put an end to the oldest and longest conflict in latin america, which has claimed at least 220,000 victims and displaced six million people and which has led to political persecution of opposition and trade union leaders. the agreement also provides for the disarmament of the rebels, as the government has committed to allocate farc seats in congress, as well as security guarantees for rebel fighters. the commission also proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. but, mr president, the peace process can only lead to the establishment of a democratic colombia if and when the paramilitary organizations are dissolved.
the commission the european union is also calling on the international community to take action to prevent the spread of the virus, to prevent the spread of the virus and to prevent the spread of the virus. kabila's decision to extend his term in office has provoked a storm of opposition reaction and massive protests and bloody riots. at least 17 people have already fallen dead. the european diplomacy must not accept the terms of the poker game played by kabila, the so-called guarantor of stability, in order to remain in power. the restoration of stability can only be achieved by respecting the constitution and by the smooth conduct of elections within the prescribed time limits. the existence of military groups and local conflicts in the congo, however, have a specific objective, namely to control the exploitation of the rich natural resources of this vast country. so if there is anything europe can do to protect the congolese people, it is to stop the illegal activities of some european multinationals in the country and certainly not to interfere in its internal politics.
the commission madam president, i have already stressed that, despite the triumphal processions of the european union and france, last year's cop21 decision in paris did not create a clear framework for dealing with the disastrous consequences of climate change, and that is because it did not touch on two major problems that we will have to deal with in the future. the first major problem is that of the production model, which is essentially unchanged. the big industrial states and their companies are finally getting rich in the name of so-called ecology and continue to serve the same model of development. the second major issue is that of climate migration. it is a huge political weakness of the paris agreement, the lack of any reference to the status of climate refugee or migrant. for the period 2008-2013 alone, the number is estimated at 166 million. moreover, studies have shown that only when a natural disaster finds a group of people unprepared do they migrate. the time has come for the industrial nations at cop22 to take up their responsibilities and create real mechanisms to prevent problems because we know how to deal with them.
the commission madam president, the transparency register aims to provide citizens with information on organisations which, through their activities, seek to influence decision-making processes in the european union. since 1 march, the european commission has been consulting on the conversion of the system from a voluntary to a mandatory register of interest representatives, in order to bring more transparency and control to the activities of lobbies at european level. moreover, according to a report published by transparency international on 15 april 2015, of the 19 countries assessed, only seven had a legislative framework in relation to lobbying activities, while the commission, parliament and council of the european union have a moderate score in terms of transparency in relation to lobbying activities. it is therefore clear that a legislative framework should be established to control the activities of lobbies in the european institutions.
the commission madam president, the european union has already adopted regulations on safety requirements for all materials, substances and articles intended to come into contact, directly or indirectly, with food, in order to ensure that substances are not transmitted into food in quantities that endanger human health. however, the commission has taken specific measures for only four materials that come into contact with food: plastic, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. however, for all other materials that come into contact with food, no specific measures have yet been taken, with the result that human health is endangered and in some cases the composition of food is adversely affected. it is therefore necessary to take immediate measures by the union also for other materials in contact with food and to close all gaps in risk assessment, traceability, compliance and control.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the application of european union law often meets with legitimate objections, both from the member states and from citizens, and this is because the states of the european south in particular are usually confronted with the exploitative policy pursued against them by the states of the rich north. on the other hand, the citizens of the union are experiencing unemployment and poverty as a result of merkel's austerity and are resisting the imposition of brussels' unworkable legislation. as the european union itself is transformed from a union of states and peoples into a german europe, into a union of lenders, where states are divided into lenders and debtors, the ecb and the commission, which are supposed to be the guardians of union law, are transformed, through the troika, into organs of the lenders themselves, who, by their actions as members of the troika, are violating union law and fundamental rights. as a member of the european parliament and as a professor of european union institutions at the university of crete, i consider it important that the court of justice of the european union recently stressed, on the occasion of the cyprus memorandum, that the institutions of the union, when acting as members of the troika, are bound by the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. we expect full implementation of this court decision and the spirit of the court decision. the commission, as a member of the troika, must not violate fundamental rights in greece and other countries.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the report on the application of european law in 2014 contains correct findings, such as that the institutions of the union must respect primary law and in particular the charter of fundamental rights when adopting the secondary law of the union or that member states must also respect fundamental rights. however, the same report correctly points out that environment and health, as well as consumer protection, were again the policy areas where the most breaches occurred, and that the application of union law is not sufficiently transparent nor subject to effective control by the complainants and interested parties. it is therefore clear that there is a lack of respect, both on the part of the member states and on the part of the union itself, for the principles which established the union, namely respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union.
the commission madam president, it is a fact that the correct and timely transposition of eu law into the laws of the member states must be one of the priorities of the states. this will help to increase the credibility of the institutions and to address some of the side effects that have been observed. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. for example, a directive on agricultural and livestock products affects a country in the south differently from a country in the north. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, the case of victoire ingabire shows how the rwandan regime has treated its political opponents for two decades: by muzzling and imprisoning. victoire ingabire is serving her third year in prison for demanding the obvious: truth and justice. but the regime does not seem willing to accept any other narrative of the events of 1994 than the official one, on which it bases its legitimacy. the rwandan authorities' refusal to allow the long-planned meeting of the european parliament delegation with the activist victoire ingabire to take place should not go unnoticed. it is another act in the regime's long-running attempt to block investigations into the responsibility of the current rulers for the 1994 massacres that led to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people on both sides and the complete disintegration of the country. in the wake of victoire ingabire's case, we must condemn the many more persecutions of lesser-known activists and dissidents who are currently in kigali dungeons, many of whom are missing.
the commission mr president, since 1989, when omar al-bashir seized power in sudan by means of a coup d'état, the country has been placed under an authoritarian regime and internal conflicts have multiplied, resulting in thousands of deaths and millions of displaced persons and refugees. in parallel, since 2003, the conflict in darfur has resulted in more than 300,000 deaths and, according to amnesty international figures, hundreds of children have died from the chemicals used by the sudanese government to bomb the region. in addition, press and media freedom is being eroded and criminal prosecutions of journalists are frequent. it is therefore necessary to put an end to all forms of violence, repression and violation of human rights in sudan, as well as to the bombing of civilians with chemical weapons. at the same time, there should be financial support from the european union for all humanitarian organisations to provide food and healthcare to the population and the armed conflict taking place in the area should also be condemned.
the commission mr president, on 20 september 2016, a bangkok criminal court found andy hall guilty of allegedly defaming the government, and sentenced him to four years in prison. andy hall has been fighting for the protection of human rights in southeast asia for the past ten years and has been involved in the investigation of the mistreatment of migrant workers in thailand, providing evidence of the violation of basic rights during their work, as well as the lack of protection by the country's labour laws. andy hall's case, however, is not unique to thailand. on the contrary, there has been an increase in prosecutions of human rights defenders in the country. according to the un human rights office, ten people have already been prosecuted in the country this year for reporting violations of rights. it is therefore necessary to restore democracy in thailand without delay and to protect human rights, in particular the rights of workers. the thai authorities must finally stop prosecuting human rights defenders like they did andy hall.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on international financial reporting standards (ifrs 9), because it concerns accounting standards that ensure financial stability, sustainable development and long-term investment.
in writing. ‒ the the motion for a resolution on international financial reporting standards is a technical effort, but it has very important implications both for the daily lives of european citizens and for areas directly affecting the course of europe. the revision and strengthening of specific structures will allow us, among other things, to avoid crises such as the recent financial crisis in 2008. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ international financial reporting standards as part of eu law are intended to impose a level playing field in a single market structured to benefit the strong economies of eu member states and not to allow the development of the corresponding weak ones.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the motion for a resolution because the international financial reporting standards, as part of eu law, are supposed to impose a level playing field in a single market that is structured to benefit the strong economies of eu member states and not allow the weak to develop.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the international accounting standards board adopted a new accounting standard for financial instruments, which replaces the existing standard. the resolution aims to address the main concerns prior to its adoption by the commission. the resolution entails several good elements that gue/ngl supports. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on international financial reporting standards: ifrs 9 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament plenary in strasbourg on 4/10/2016, and because i consider that the motion for a resolution is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ international financial reporting standards as part of eu law are intended to impose a level playing field in a single market structured to benefit the strong economies of eu member states and not to allow the development of the corresponding weak ones.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in syria, because there must be an immediate cessation of hostilities and indiscriminate bombing of civilians, in order to ensure the immediate delivery of humanitarian aid and to restart political negotiations with a view to a definitive cessation of the war.
in writing. ‒ the continuing deterioration of the situation in syria should lead us as the european parliament to a clear message, aimed at promoting solutions for the benefit of the thousands of people at risk and always in the light of respect for international agreements and international law. i think, however, that the motion for a resolution was not clear enough and at the same time did not cover all the aspects of the problems we are called upon to tackle, despite its positive elements. that's why i decided to leave.
in writing. - negative as a whole. once again, and more openly, the eu is following the tactic of indirect support for the islamists and opposing the only force that has fought alongside assad, russia.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the reports on the situation in syria because, once again and more clearly, the eu is following the tactic of indirect support for the islamists and opposing the only force that fought alongside al-assad, russia.
in writing. ‒ referring to my occasional speeches in the european parliament's plenary on the situation in syria, i would like to express my opposition to this motion for a resolution because it is neither complete nor well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu continues to support the islamists indirectly and opposes the only force that fought alongside assad, russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the un climate change conference because it is vital that the european union ratifies the paris agreement before cop22 in marrakesh, in order to ensure that the agreement will come into force.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the un conference on climate change was a positive move, demonstrating our position on the need to take action on the problems and risks threatening the environment. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to vote for the report.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the motion for a resolution on the 2016 un climate change conference held in marrakech, morocco (cop22), even though it contains issues that do not concern the protection of the environment, an environment that the rulers themselves have now destroyed and are just now trying to save what is left.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakech, morocco, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 5/10/2016 and because i consider that the motion for a resolution is neither complete nor well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the environment must be protected from human pollutants and harmful interference.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the regulation on materials in contact with foodstuffs, because the existing legislation needs to be revised. it is imperative to pay greater attention to issues relating to the protection of human health through risk assessment, traceability and enforcement.
in writing. ‒ the we have voted on the report on the application of the regulation on materials in contact with foodstuffs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are called upon to improve the rules governing the food production process. i think that the report contains positive elements and i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour because i believe that no one can undermine public health in the slightest. i also believe that the solution to such problems is to return, as far as possible, to the use of traditional methods of packaging and processing food, rather than developing new substances whose final effect is unknown.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the application of the regulation on materials in contact with foodstuffs (ec) no 1935/2004 because no one can undermine public health in the slightest. i also believe that the solution to such problems lies in returning as far as possible to the use of traditional methods of food packaging and processing, rather than developing new substances whose long-term effects are unknown.
in writing. ‒ the food contact materials (fcms) are widely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, cooking utensils, tableware, etc. the regulation lays down general safety requirements applicable to all materials and articles likely to come into contact with food; it also provides for the possibility of adopting specific measures for the 17 materials listed in annex 1 to the framework regulation. so far, specific measures have been adopted and approved at eu level for only four fcms: plastics (including recycled plastic), ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. action at eu level is necessary to address the problems posed both by the absence of specific eu measures and by gaps in risk assessment, traceability, compliance and control. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ food contact materials are used in everyday life in food packaging, kitchen utensils, tableware, etc. in some case, chemicals can emanate from these materials and endanger human health. it is essential to provide at eu level specific measures to address the gap in assessment, enforcement, traceability and control of food contact materials. for gue/ngl, the eu should seek to achieve proper regulation for all types of food contact materials. i voted in favour of this report since it can address the main gap and implement proper eu regulation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the application of the regulation on materials in contact with food for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 5/10/2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ no one may in the slightest degree undermine public health. in addition, we believe that the solution to such problems is to return, as far as possible, to the use of traditional methods of packaging and processing food, rather than developing new substances whose final effects are unknown.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on monitoring the application of union law (annual report 2014), because i believe that the adoption of a regulation governing the administrative procedure of the union's administrative services is an urgent need.
in writing. ‒ the the annual report on the monitoring of the application of union law shall monitor the implementation and compliance of member states and competent authorities with union law. the report notes positive observations but also points which need immediate improvement. i believe that such reports help to improve the european construction and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i find the text as a whole negative because, in a very ingenious and insidious way, the eu and its legislators have constructed laws and rules that take away the last right of sovereignty of a nation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the 2014 annual report on monitoring the application of eu law because, in a very sophisticated and insidious way, the eu and its legislators have constructed laws and rules that take away the last sovereign rights of a nation. these are laws which cannot have the same force in the countries of europe, because the situations are different. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ an effective application of eu law is essential given that the european union wishes to meet the objectives set in the treaties and to enhance its credibility. the commission monitors the application of eu law and ensures that the legislation complies with eu law. this resolution aims to review the implementation of eu law for the year 2014. i voted in favour of the resolution, since it highlights improvements but notes that the sectors of the environment, health, consumer rights, mobility and transport were the policy areas in which most infringement cases remained.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the 2014 annual report on the control of the application of union law for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 6/10/2016, and because the report is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ in a clever way, the eu and its legislators have introduced laws and rules that take away the last sovereign right of a nation. these are laws which cannot have the same force in the states of europe, since the situations are different.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under article 106 of the regulation concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seed of the bt11 series, because the risk assessment of the crop was incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission were inadequate.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seeds of the bt11 series is a positive move for the health of european citizens. as the resolution points out, we consider that the risk assessment of the crop is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are voting in favour because we are against any attempt to release gmos and we are calling on the european parliament to take an even tougher stance and to block the commission's attempts to allow, by indirect means, their cultivation within the union.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the objection raised under rule 106 of the rules of procedure concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seeds of the bt11 series because i am against any attempt to free the gmo. i would also like to ask the european parliament to take a more firm stance and to block all attempts by the commission to allow the cultivation of these crops in the union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution calling on the european commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision on the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds, because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ we are against any attempt to release gmos; we call on the european parliament to take a more firm stance and to block the commission's attempts to allow the cultivation of these crops in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under article 106 of the regulation concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seed of the 1507 series, because the risk assessment of the crop was incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission were inadequate.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the objection to the marketing of seeds of genetically modified maize 1507 is a positive move in the interests of the health of european citizens, as it concerns the strengthening of the control procedures for the authorisation of genetically modified organisms. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are voting because we are against any attempt to release gmos and we are calling on the european parliament to take an even tougher stance and to block the commission's attempts to allow their cultivation in the union by way of a backdoor.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the objection under article 106 of the regulation on the placing on the market of seeds of genetically modified maize 1507, because i am against any attempt to release gmos and i call on the european parliament to take an even tougher stance and to block any attempt by the commission to allow their cultivation in the union by side.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution calling on the european commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize 1507 for seed cultivation, because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ we are against any attempt to release gmos; we call on the european parliament to take a more firm stance and to block the commission's attempts to allow the cultivation of these crops in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under article 106 of the regulation concerning the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize seeds of the mon 810 series, because the risk assessment of the crop was incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission were inadequate.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the objection to the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize seeds of the mon 810 series is a positive move in the interest of the health of european citizens, as it concerns the strengthening of the control procedures for the authorisation of genetically modified organisms. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are voting because we are against any attempt to release gmos. we call on the european parliament to take a more firm stance and to block the commission's attempts to allow the cultivation of these crops in the union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the objection under article 106 of the regulation on the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize seeds of the mon 810 series because i am against any attempt to release the gmos and because i call on the european parliament to take an even tougher stance and to block any attempt by the commission to allow the cultivation of gmos within the union by the back door.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution calling on the european commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision on the placing on the market for cultivation of seeds of genetically modified maize mon 810 series, because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ we oppose any attempt to release gmos and call on the european parliament to take a tougher stance and block the commission's attempts to sideline their cultivation within the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under article 106 of the regulation concerning the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize products of the mon 810 series, because the risk assessment of the crop was incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission were inadequate.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the objection to the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize products of the mon 810 series is a positive move in the interest of the health of european citizens, as it concerns the strengthening of the control procedures for the authorisation of genetically modified organisms. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are voting because we are against any attempt to release gmos. we also call on the european parliament to take a more firm stance and to block the commission's attempts to allow the cultivation of these crops in the union.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the objection under rule 106 of the regulation on the renewal of the authorization of genetically modified maize products of the mon 810 series because i am against any attempt to liberalize the use of gmos. i would also like to ask the european parliament to take a more firm stance and to block all attempts by the commission to allow the cultivation of these crops in the union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution calling on the european commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision on the authorisation of the placing on the market of products of genetically modified maize mon 810 series, because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ we are against any attempt to liberalise gmos and call on the european parliament to take a tougher stance and to block the commission's attempts to allow, by cheap means, their cultivation within the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under article 106 of the regulation concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913, because the risk assessment of the crop was incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission were inadequate.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the objection to the placing on the market of certain types of genetically modified cotton. i think that the objections raised are reasonable and legitimate, since the scope for monitoring the impact of these bodies has not been exhausted. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are voting because we are against any attempt to release gmos and we are calling on the european parliament to take an even tougher stance and to block the commission's attempts to allow their cultivation inside the union.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the objection under rule 106 concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913, because i am against any attempt to liberalize the use of gmos. i would also ask the european parliament to take a more firm stance and to block any attempt by the commission to allow them to be grown in the union by the wayside.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the motion for a resolution calling on the european commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision on the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913, because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ we are against any attempt to release gmos; we call on the european parliament to take a more firm stance and to block the commission's attempts to allow the cultivation of these crops in the union.
the commission madam president, the way customs authorities operate and are controlled is an important factor in the smooth functioning of a state and the proper functioning of the internal market. the member states of the union must do their duty and fight fraud in the customs sector, thus contributing to the achievement of the internal market objective of the sale of safe products with genuine certificates of origin and to the fight against dumping and the search for a more favourable jurisdiction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in greece there have been many cases of illegal greenification of products, which now cross the border, are baptized in greek, with the result that greek farmers, already impoverished by the memorandum, see their own products rot. the sum of the annual greenification of ammonia from skopje is known, as is the fact that oil from tunisia is dubbed greek. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
the commission madam president, after the implementation of the schengen treaty and on the basis of the union's founding act as the european economic community, crossborder trade still faces the distortions of a complex mechanism of customs legislation. twenty-eight different member states apply as much severity as they can and impose different sanctions. but this has a direct impact on cross-border trade, resulting in a loss of revenue for member states. this is particularly true in countries where products originating in non-eu countries are imported and then transported across borders to the rest of europe. the union failed the examinations on the major issues: the economy, cross-border trade, illegal immigration, the fight against terrorism. member states, with nationalist governments that safeguard their national borders free from bigotry and enclosures, will be able to cooperate to increase the efficiency of customs controls on goods and to curb revenue evasion.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last year's agreement and the lifting of sanctions on iran's nuclear programme brought iran out of the isolation imposed on it by the west. we expect iran to constructively use the important role it plays, not only in the middle east but globally, in contributing to peace, stability and development. in this respect, iran's participation in the resolution of conflicts and political crises is necessary and is constantly being assessed. the european union must develop with iran an open, frank, ambitious, multi-level, cross-sectoral dialogue in a climate of mutual trust and respect, based on an assessment of common interests as well as differences, in a way that benefits both the iranian people and the peoples of europe. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. we have a duty to put at the heart of our dialogue and cooperation issues concerning the security and well-being of our peoples, to engage in a frank and productive dialogue on human rights, to support efforts to bring about greater controls on the movement of arms, legal and illegal, so as to put an end to the growing militarization of the region. we have a duty to expand our cooperation in all areas: culture, education, trade, energy, environmental sustainability. a multi-level cooperation which should be based on mutual respect for international standards and principles. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must put pressure on our partners, the united states, to lift the unilateral primary sanctions against the iranian people. not only because they strangle european companies that want to invest in iran, but first and foremost because of the negative impact they have on human rights and in particular on the right of the iranian people to food, health and development. i personally think that today's report is balanced and meets most of the challenges for the further development of our relations with iran, and mr howitt has of course made a very positive contribution to this.
the commission madam president, there is no doubt that the agreement between the european union and iran on the country's nuclear programme is a major success of the european union's foreign policy and has opened up the field of cooperation between the two sides in various fields. iran is the second largest economy in the middle east and a major player in the energy trade, because it is the second largest country in the world in natural gas reserves and the fourth largest in oil. the european union's cooperation with iran in various fields, such as trade, industry and energy, is therefore in the interest of the countries of the european union, so that they are not dependent on one supplier in the energy sector. the european union has finally decided to differentiate its foreign policy from that of the united states. so after the nuclear deal, he lifted sanctions against iran, which the united states did not do, and as a result, combined with the fact that trade with iran is in dollars, there is a problem with the european union's trade with iran, which must be in euros. finally, iran can be an important stabilizing factor in the middle east, but it must also improve human rights and abolish the death penalty for young people under the age of 18, especially children.
the commission mr president, iran can be an important partner for the member states of the union, as it is an economy with great potential, but also a potential pole of stability in the wider region, provided that it fully respects human rights. the european union is the world's largest trading partner with iran, and europe was iran's largest trading partner before the sanctions were imposed. the lifting of sanctions therefore offers significant opportunities. the european external action service must work productively, with a view to the full restoration of relations, impartially and with the interests of the citizens as its sole consideration. it must emphasize the priorities of public and small and mediumsized enterprises, not only in the energy sector but also in other sectors. in particular, the possibilities for cooperation in the construction sector should be studied, because iran is a country experiencing rapid growth, while, on the other hand, in countries such as greece, the construction sector is the one that has been hit the hardest by the economic crisis and austerity policies. the european union must therefore encourage extroversion, not just in words and not just where it is in the interests of german multinationals.
the commission mr president, every year 70 million euros are lost to tax evasion and tax avoidance by multinationals. the fact that large companies in high-tax countries pay on average 30% less tax than small and medium-sized enterprises is also an important indication of the wrong policy pursued by the union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. multinational companies operating in the country are avoiding taxes by taking refuge in tax havens such as luxembourg, while small and medium-sized enterprises are closing down one after another, as they are now subject to unbearable taxation by creditors. the role of olaf should also be redefined to make it more efficient and to tackle tax evasion and avoidance. finally, in order to help combat tax evasion, the european union must stop relying on the famous oecd standards, which are known to allow for grey areas, thereby facilitating tax evasion and tax avoidance by multinationals.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the so-called charity that leads people to live in unsuitable camps, such as the aegean islands or the calais jungle, is in fact inhuman and serves only the social dumping undertaken by the multinationals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in particular, the provisions on the country of first entry, which the german government wishes to re-impose now that it is paying the price for its irresponsible migration policy, a migration policy whose burden it is trying to impose on greece by returning refugees from germany, must be abolished immediately. it is a plan, because in greece it always finds a willing government on its hands, a government which has now just realised, a year later, that relocations are not being implemented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must therefore demand resettlement here and now for refugees and migrants and equal distribution within the european union. the greek people should not have to pay for the confrontation and shortsighted policy of the member states of the union.
the commission mr president, corporate human rights abuses are a matter of global concern. more and more companies are moving their factories to third countries, taking advantage of cheap labour and non-existent labour rights. respect for human rights is a moral duty and a legal obligation for companies and their management, regardless of the field in which they operate. there are many cases where multinational corporations boast of supposed corporate social responsibility while profiting from low operating costs due to the exploitation of child labor. the protection of human rights must be a priority for all member states and the union. however, we note that, despite the csr committee's 2011 communication, several member states have not yet defined national policy frameworks to promote csr and have not published their plans for business and human rights. if the european union wants more corporate responsibility, it must stop perpetuating corporate irresponsibility and hiding behind its finger. it should combat social dumping and tax evasion and restrict the activities of undertakings which do not respect labour protection rules.
the commission mr president, it is time to assess the losses that have been created and caused by the european union's ideological policy on the gas market. there are more than 20 terminals, many of which were financed with taxpayers' money, but only 20% of the capacity of these terminals is actually used and some of them are not even operational. this is for a very simple reason: lng remains more expensive than other alternatives. the only solution to bring prices down sufficiently could be a massive increase in gas imports from north america, but this is contrary to the ecological values that have been established in the european union, since the gas comes from the destructive activity of 'fracking'. the commission must finally acknowledge that the primary objective of developing liquefied natural gas has been and remains geopolitical. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the development of lng infrastructure can be profitable if the european union abandons its neoliberal ideology and geopolitical blind alleys.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one. but we must also be realistic. in many member states, such as my own country, greece, we are dependent on a single supplier for natural gas and so it is essential that we have greater access to liquefied natural gas. it is also an opportunity to give consumers access to cheap energy, as the price of lng has been significantly reduced by the oversupply of lng. but at the same time we must immediately create and strengthen supporting pipeline infrastructure that will combine all forms of natural gas. an example of this, and i would like you to hear it, ladies and gentlemen, is the depa project for central and eastern macedonia and thrace; a project which can supply natural gas to provincial capitals, to smaller towns, to industrial zones, to one of the most energy-poor regions in greece and europe; a 1,128 km long project which will expand the energy market of greece by 0.4 billion cubic metres and attract investors. we need the support of all the financial instruments of the european union to give greek consumers cheaper energy.
the commission mr president, ensuring effective control of fishing activities is a prerequisite for ensuring the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and for a level playing field between the union fleets. in order to ensure that competition exists and that fishermen are treated equally, the european union proposes the establishment of a common fisheries control regulation. however, in countries like greece, where fishermen are suffering the consequences of the troika's agricultural memorandum, the union is doing nothing but strengthening the fisheries sector. the tax-cutting policies, mr vella, which the commission is imposing through the troika, are leading to the degradation of coastal fishermen, while the primary sector is increasingly affected. the union must therefore focus on strengthening the blue economy, increasing funding for the fisheries sector, and in the case of greece, mr vella, we must finally put an end to the tax-cutting policy that is hurting the incomes and interests of fishermen and has impoverished them.
the commission i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr poręba, for his report. transport is a key pillar of our economy, contributing €548 billion and providing more than 11 million jobs. but transport is also responsible for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions, with over 70% coming from road transport. the european union is therefore moving towards alternative transport, mass transport, and rail in particular. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. according to the latest statistics, more than 26 000 people were killed on europe's roads last year, a figure that has risen for the first time since 2001. in addition to creating new infrastructure, the european union must therefore invest in modernising, completing and strengthening existing infrastructure and controls in order to reduce road accidents, and take measures to support road transport and hauliers.
the commission the situation in the 'hotspots' of the aegean islands has reached a dead end. conflicts between refugees and illegal immigrants are now on the agenda. at the moment, more than 14 000 refugees and illegal immigrants are stranded on the aegean islands. at the same time, turkey is supporting the operation of slave trade rings that bring refugees not only to the aegean islands but also to evros in thrace. the recent european council has completely failed to find a solution to the refugee problem and to rid greece of the flood of thousands of refugees flooding every corner of the country. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are not forced to pay for the damage they have done to their homes. where is this going? when will the 6,000 monthly transfers start? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, the union's mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is invalid and illegal because, on the one hand, it is provided for in article 7 of the treaty, and on the other hand, it violates the principle of interinstitutional agreements. it is another attempt by professional manipulators to manipulate the national policies of the member states. it is unacceptable and undemocratic to give a new authority the power to monitor member states, and it is a waste of resources, since there are already international bodies monitoring violations of fundamental rights. commissioners jourová and timmermans have repeatedly stated that there are no violations of fundamental rights. nevertheless, there is a continuing attempt at political domination over the member states, just as in the case of greece with the implementation of bailout memoranda or in the cases of poland and hungary with legitimate constitutional amendments and referendums respectively. remember that, according to article 4 of the treaty, the union is obliged to respect the national identity of the member states, which is inherent in their fundamental political and constitutional structure, including regional and local selfgovernment.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the establishment of a european union mechanism to examine periodically the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the member states is a positive starting point, since these are the founding principles of the union. however, the devil is in the details and the proposal contains vague points. further specifications are needed as regards the guarantees of impartiality of the proposed mechanism and the nature of any sanctions against member states when they violate citizens' fundamental rights. the question of violations of social rights, in particular, arising from the requirements of the union institutions vis-à-vis member states in the context of budgetary surveillance must also be addressed. for example, the european institutions are effectively preventing the greek government from implementing court decisions that deem certain pension cuts unconstitutional. the interest in rights should not be selective.
the commission madam president, mr timmermans, as you know, democracy, the rule of law and human rights are directly linked to the economy and are undermined by poverty and social exclusion. this is exactly what is happening in greece, where troika and memorandum have led 3,885,000 greeks to live below the poverty line, while armies of unemployed are a disgrace to the so-called 'european social model'. in addition, mr timmermans, greece must put an end to the systematic violation of the social rights of greek citizens who, for reasons of religious conscience, refuse to receive the social security number, that is, refuse to have their faces numbered and identified by a unique number. their refusal is being punished by the greek state and over 100,000 greek citizens are now deprived of medical care, as well as the payment of pensions and other benefits. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the community.
the commission the fact that we are now discussing the need to create a mechanism to protect democracy and the rule of law is a clear indication that the basic principles on which the european union was founded are being violated in almost all the countries of the european union. the european union is, of course, wrong in its approach to this matter. while tolerating this situation initially, it now seeks to create an institution to enforce the will of a leading group of the european union in its member states. the aim is, of course, to remove the powers and independence of the states, which the european union is obliged to respect under international laws and treaties. the possible creation of this mechanism is an attempt to legitimize the targeting of various states and the imposition of sanctions on them. we have now poland and hungary, and before that we had greece, which was punished by the harsh memoranda. the hypocrisy of the whole affair is shown by the fact that the european union is discussing... (the president interrupts the speaker) )
the commission the european parliament has proposed another reactionary mechanism for the european union. in the name of democracy and the rule of law, the european union is building an industry to provide the framework for its future imperialist interventions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a tool of pressure and competition, which in any case is designed to prepare both the european union and the monopolies for any danger of their power being taken over by the popular factor. the european union therefore does not regard as a violation the persecution and banning of communists in a number of its member states, which is the result of the unprecedented equation between communism and the monster of fascism adopted by the european union. the european parliament is the servant of the most reactionary mechanisms of intervention, which the people in their struggles can and must use to take power into their own hands by freeing themselves from the chains of the european union.
the commission mr president, is there internal security in europe? in fact, each member state of the union has a different level of internal security, depending on factors, the majority of which depend on the internal conditions of each state and the form of its society. the european union has done nothing but add to the problems of the countries. it is very easy to start in the balkans and get to denmark by road, carrying all kinds of illegal goods, from drugs to weapons, ready to be used in terrorist attacks. the so-called border controls that have been imposed, apart from creating traffic jams at the border, serve no further purpose, since they are not just checks. finally, how many of you in this room can say with any degree of certainty that we have seen the end of terrorist attacks? worse still, how many of us can say that for past or future terrorist attacks we have done or are prepared to do everything possible on our part to prevent them? unfortunately, europe faces a huge security gap, a gap which will not be filled unless some are willing to leave behind ideologies and attachments which are no longer useful.
the commission the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. my view is that we should focus on updating, on updating, on terrorism and prevention. who are our enemies? how are they equipped? how do they convert new members? where do they get their money? how do they work together? how are they organized? and the forecast is about new objectives and new threats to the european union and the entire planet. we know as well as we know we have an asymmetric threat, as we know we are vulnerable. you yourself said that there are eleven member states which still do not have sufficient or no infrastructure for the implementation of the pnr. but what interests the european union and us here is which member states are unwilling, unwilling or unable to implement what we decide. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what we all need to understand is that, wherever the terrorists come from, this threat concerns the european union, the european mentality, the european way of thinking, and that the greatest security, organized security, is that which guarantees the freedom of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated dna data exchange in denmark, as it is an important step in the effort of cross-border cooperation for law enforcement in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the draft council implementing decision to start the automated exchange of dna data in denmark is part of an effort to intensify cooperation between states and services to fight crime and more. i believe that, although the initial thinking is positive, we must be very careful about the processing and recording of personal data. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not inform each other. the agreement does not effectively promote the risk-based approach, nor does it ensure the obligation of data protection by design and by default.
in writing. ‒ the the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not inform each other. the agreement does not effectively promote the risk-based approach or ensure the obligation of data protection by design and by default. that is why i am voting against it.
(gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ this report is aimed at strengthening unilateral repressive practice set up by prüm convention, consistently opposed by my political group. i voted against since the quantity of data does not necessarily make policy implementation better.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated dna data exchange in denmark, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not inform each other. the agreement does not effectively promote the risk-based approach or ensure the obligation of data protection by design and by default.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of fingerprint data in denmark, as it is an important step in the effort of cross-border law enforcement cooperation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of fingerprint data in denmark is part of an effort to intensify cooperation between states and services to fight crime and more. i believe that, although the initial thinking is positive, we must be very careful about the processing and recording of personal data. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ the the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not inform each other. the agreement does not effectively promote the risk-based approach, nor does it ensure the obligation of data protection by design and by default.
in writing. ‒ the case demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where member states' intelligence services failed to inform each other. the agreement does not effectively promote the risk-based approach, nor does it ensure the obligation of data protection by design and by default. that is why i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of fingerprint data in denmark, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not inform each other. the agreement does not effectively promote the risk-based approach or ensure the obligation of data protection by design and by default.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports, as it represents an important step forward in establishing full and reciprocal visa waiver for holders of common passports as well, as it brings tangible benefits in various areas such as the economy, science and culture.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation on the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports is a positive effort to further support relations and cooperation between the two parties. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ china is a strategic partner of russia and the eu's close operational cooperation with china is important in the context of diplomatic exchanges and visits.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the eu-china agreement, as china is a strategic partner of russia and close operational cooperation between the eu and china is important in the context of diplomatic exchanges and visits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-china agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or laissez-passer of the european union and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
(gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since removal of any travel formalities is bilaterally beneficial both for our and third countries’ citizens. introduction of visa waiver for european and chinese diplomats will contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and confidence between eu and its strategic partner prc.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports, as it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ china is a strategic partner of russia and the eu's close operational cooperation with china is important in the context of diplomatic exchanges and visits.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1303/2013 as regards certain provisions on financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability, as i consider it to be a positive development given the pressure on member states' national economies due to the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on financial management for certain member states facing or threatened with serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability. in recent years europe has been confronted with the difficulties of the economic crisis and we all have understood the importance of similar situations. we must support member states which are threatened by financial instability. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report. the report is essentially about greece, but we are opposed to any aid from the union, which puts us even deeper into the nets of the memorandum. when we say that we are against the memorandum, we are against the entire memorandum, even the slightest positive provisions that derive from it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of report a8-0292/2016. although it is essentially greece, i am opposed to any aid from the union, which puts us even deeper into the nets of the memorandum. when we say that we are against the memorandum, we are against the entire memorandum, even the slightest positive provisions that derive from it.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis is putting pressure on national economies and member states have taken austerity measures to balance their budgets. it is important, in this situation, to ensure the smooth implementation of the eu's main financial mechanism, namely the european structural and investment funds (esif). i voted in favour of this report because i support the so-called 'supplementary' payments under the esf programmes to countries in economic difficulties.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1303/2013 as regards certain provisions on financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability, because it is sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. the procedural amendment to the regulation on european funding for countries facing 'serious economic difficulties', such as greece and cyprus, does not concern an increase in funding but rather the acceleration of scheduled payments for later. this is another facility for the business groups to which european funds - derived from the savage taxation of the people - are mainly directed through various programmes and funds (european regional development fund, european social fund, cohesion fund, etc.), providing them with direct liquidity for investment and increasing their profitability. the triumphal processions of bourgeois parties are a challenge. the workers, the unemployed have experience: the absorption of funds, in which the syriza-anel government has a great record, inflates the accounts of business groups with subsidies, hot money for their profitability, while the people suffer. as for the jobs cited, although they are created, they offer the familiar workplace jobs with flexible employment and small amounts of 400 - 500 eur, quarterly - five-month contracts (vouchers) with even less and without insurance. that is why the people have nothing to expect from the eu and the governments and must fight against their policy which breeds and reproduces exploitation and the generalized attack on the working people's rights.
in writing. ‒ the although the report is essentially about greece, we are opposed to any assistance from the union, which puts us even deeper into the nets of the memorandum. when we say that we are against the memorandum, we are against the entire memorandum, even the slightest positive provisions that derive from it.
in writing. the procedural amendment to the regulation on european funding for countries facing 'serious economic difficulties', such as greece and cyprus, does not concern an increase in funding but rather the acceleration of scheduled payments for later. this is another facility for the business groups to which european funds - derived from the savage taxation of the people - are mainly directed through various programmes and funds (european regional development fund, european social fund, cohesion fund, etc.), providing them with direct liquidity for investment and increasing their profitability. the triumphal processions of bourgeois parties are a challenge. the workers, the unemployed have experience: the absorption of funds, in which the syriza-anel government has a great record, inflates the accounts of business groups with subsidies, hot money for their profitability, while the people suffer. as for the jobs cited, although they are created, they offer the familiar workplace jobs with flexible employment and small amounts of 400 - 500 eur, quarterly - five-month contracts (vouchers) with even less and without insurance. for this reason, the people have nothing to expect from the eu and the governments and must fight against their policy, which generates and reproduces exploitation and the generalized attack on the working people's rights.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-marie le pen. as the request for waiver of immunity concerned activities outside the european parliament, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ freedom of speech and thought are inalienable human rights. it is not possible in 2016 to persecute a person for his opinion. we consider that the prosecution of mr le pen is political in nature.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report on the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-marie le pen. freedom of speech and thought are inalienable human rights. it is not possible in 2016 to persecute a person for his opinion. i believe that the prosecution of mr le pen is political in nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, since parliamentary immunity is aimed solely at ensuring the smooth and uninterrupted work of meps and not at granting them a licence for crime (hate speech). any abuse of immunity jeopardises the legitimacy of granting this very special status.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-marie le pen, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ freedom of speech and thought are inalienable human rights. it is not possible in 2016 to persecute a person for his opinion. we consider that the prosecution of mr le pen is political in nature.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on the application for the protection of jane collins' immunity and parliamentary privileges concerned issues arising outside the european parliament's activities. as i believe that the procedures of justice must be respected, i have advocated the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the mep has exposed a series of heinous crimes which the uk government, the police and the political establishment have ignored and turned a blind eye to for their own purposes and political correctness. the protection of children and women from beasts such as those mrs collins has shown is the duty of all.
in writing. ‒ the the mep has exposed a series of heinous crimes which the uk government, the police and the political establishment have ignored and turned a blind eye to for their own purposes and for reasons of political correctness. the protection of children and women from beasts such as those mrs collins has shown is the duty of all. i therefore vote against the report on the application for the defence of the privileges and immunities of jane collins.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of not defending jane collins’s immunity, since meps should benefit from their immunity in so far as the necessity of referring to it is directly connected with their rights and obligations at the ep.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the decision of the committee on legal affairs not to defend the privileges and immunities of jane collins in the report under consideration.
in writing. ‒ the mep has exposed a series of heinous crimes which the uk government, the police and the political establishment have ignored and turned a blind eye to for their own purposes and political correctness. the protection of children and women from beasts such as those mrs collins has shown is the duty of all.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on the request for the protection of the immunity and parliamentary privileges of mario borghezio concerned issues arising outside the activities of the european parliament. as i believe that the procedures of justice must be respected, i have advocated the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the freedom of speech and thought are inalienable human rights. it is not possible in 2016 to persecute a person for his opinion or for the tone of his voice. we consider that the prosecution of mr borghezio is political in nature.
in writing. ‒ the freedom of speech and thought are inalienable human rights. it is not possible in 2016 to persecute a person for his opinion or for the tone of his voice. i consider that the prosecution of mr borghezio is political in nature. i am voting against the report on the application for the defence of the privileges and immunities of mario borghezio.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of not defending mario borghezio’s immunity, since a parliament representing half a billion europeans has a strong moral obligation to fight against racism, discrimination and hate speech.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the decision of the committee on legal affairs not to defend the privileges and immunities of mario borghezio in the report under consideration.
in writing. ‒ the freedom of speech and thought are inalienable human rights. it is not possible in 2016 to persecute a person for his opinion or for the tone of his voice. we consider that the prosecution of mr borghezio is political in nature.
in writing. - we reject the recommendation. the council's position gives the commission overriding powers and at the same time does not ensure that statistics are collected in the best possible and most immediately usable way.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report, as the council's position gives the commission overriding powers and at the same time does not ensure that statistics are collected in the best possible and most immediately usable way.
in writing. the extension of the regulation to include statistics on accidents in rail transport is necessary. in addition, it is necessary to extend the statistics to include data on accessibility to rail transport by disabled persons.
in writing. ‒ i support the amendment by which parliament rejects the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on rail transport statistics, as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents.
in writing. ‒ the council's position gives the commission overriding powers and at the same time does not ensure that statistics are collected in the best and most immediately usable way.
in writing. - we vote against the recommendation. we are opposed to the delegation of additional powers once again to the commission, which has not shown any particular ability so far.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report because i am opposed to handing over additional powers once again to the commission, which has not shown any particular capacity so far.
in writing. the extension of the scope of the regulation to include inland passenger transport is a particularly key development, especially for states such as greece with a large number of passengers moving by sea. policies relating to the internal movement of passengers by sea should be based on a strong quantitative data base, which has unfortunately been lacking until now. it is of course necessary to consider whether the proposed data collection methodology meets the specific needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, since the recommendation is coming at the right time to respond to the new challenges related to increased passenger vessel traffic and the public demand for safer environment-friendly transport.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 on statistics relating to the carriage of goods by inland waterway as regards the delegation of power and the conferral of implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures, because it is sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed to the delegation of additional powers once again to the commission, which has not shown any particular capacity so far.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the legal framework of the union for customs infringements and related penalties, because this proposal will bridge the gap between the different legal systems.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on the union legal framework for customs infringements and related sanctions. the report contains some positive elements for better cooperation between the members of the union, but also for more effective controls and sanctions. i believe, however, that the problems arising from full harmonisation and coordination of services have not been solved, while it imposes a specific way of thinking and dealing with infringements, which takes away possibilities from the member states. for this reason, i have decided to withdraw.
in writing. ‒ the differences between the customs systems of the member states are obviously to serve their interests, given the different conditions prevailing in each country. the priority should not be economic operators and competitiveness, but the protection of national economies and consumers.
in writing. ‒ the differences between the customs systems of the member states are obviously to serve their interests given the different conditions prevailing in each country. the priority should not be economic operators and competitiveness, but the protection of national economies and consumers. i therefore vote against the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the legal framework of the union for customs infringements and related sanctions.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report by ms kallas as the customs union which is considered as one of the foundations of the european union, and the backbone of the single market, still suffers from no integrated approach for the enforcement of customs legislation, including sanctions. this means that the rules are the same but when those rules are infringed, the sanctions applied significantly differ. this report moves in the right directions taking into consideration the requirements of the union customs code, while facilitating and improving compliance and respecting the principle of proportionality.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the legal framework of the union for customs infringements and related sanctions, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 24 october 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the differences between the customs systems of the member states are obviously to serve their interests given the different conditions prevailing in each country. the priority should not be economic operators and competitiveness, but the protection of national economies and consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: security of the institutions, as it proposes to increase the budget for security issues following the recent terrorist attacks.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on draft amending budget no 3/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: security of the institutions. the report is positive in nature and aims to improve the security of the union's institutions. but since there are certain points which are not clear, and since there was no detailed information on matters such as the choice of security services and their capabilities, i decided to withdraw.
in writing. ‒ a high level of security at the premises of european organisations is achieved through good cooperation between the security and protection services of the host state and the respective services of the organisations, and not through the recruitment of additional staff.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: security of the institutions, as the achievement of a high level of security in the premises of european organisations is ensured by good cooperation between the security and protection services of the host state and the corresponding services of the organisations and not by the recruitment of additional staff.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the recent terrorist attacks, it is imperative to increase security measures for workers in the european union's buildings and therefore the transfer of budgetary funds to the security of the institutions is absolutely necessary.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: security of the institutions, because it is the duty of the state in which the eu institutions are located to ensure, at its own expense, the security of the members of the european parliament and eu officials and to ensure that these costs are not passed on to the union budget and, by extension, to european taxpayers. in addition, it is noted that the countries in which eu institutions are located derive increased economic advantages from the presence of these eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ a high level of security at the premises of european organisations is achieved through good cooperation between the security and protection services of the host state and the respective services of the organisations, and not through the recruitment of additional staff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal, because it stresses the need for iran to meet its international commitments in various areas, such as human rights.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the european union's strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal. i think we must be careful in our moves and, as the proposals in this report are moving in the right direction, i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the the way in which the union wants to develop relations with iran is wrong and serves mainly corporate interests rather than the interests of the member states and their citizens. the union must refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of third countries. we believe that suggestions about the justice system and how the internet works in iran are more than superfluous. international relations are a part which the member states must handle themselves, as the interests of the member states differ in various ways.
in writing. ‒ the the way in which the union wants to develop relations with iran is wrong and serves mainly corporate interests rather than the interests of the member states and their citizens. the union must refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of third countries. i think that the suggestions about the justice system and how the internet works in iran are more than superfluous. international relations are an area which the member states must manage themselves, as their interests differ in various ways. for these reasons, i am voting against the report on the eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have supported mr howitt's approach as it is important for the eu to show a common and harmonised strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement. it is important that the rule of law and democratic principles are respected and that political dialogue is enforced for further developments. the respect of human rights is to be safeguarded and promoted. relative reforms are welcome and that spirit should be part of all deals, trade or fdi-related, and international cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 24 october 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. the report reflects the fierce competition between bourgeois classes and sections of capital within the eu, as well as with other imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries, notably the us, russia, but also china, for control of markets, energy sources, raw materials and energy transport routes in the wider middle east, linked also to their stance towards iran in the light of the agreement on its nuclear programme. parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments were used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments were used effectively. these features of the iranian capitalist economy, based on the savage exploitation of the iranian working class, are a magnet for monopolies in the eu. the report also highlights this by drawing up a plan for their penetration with foreign direct investment, focusing on specific sectors such as the automotive industry, aircraft manufacturing, energy infrastructure, renewable energy, etc. on the other hand, 'human rights' as understood by the eu will continue to be a pretext for political pressure to facilitate the aspirations of business groups. the people have nothing to expect from such competition and agreements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
in writing. ‒ the the way in which the union wants to develop relations with iran is wrong and serves mainly corporate interests rather than the interests of the member states and their citizens. the union must refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of third countries. we believe that suggestions about the justice system and how the internet works in iran are more than superfluous. international relations are an area which the member states must manage themselves, as their interests differ in various ways.
in writing. ‒ the the report reflects the fierce competition between bourgeois classes and sections of capital within the eu, as well as with other imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries, notably the us, russia, but also china, for control of markets, energy sources, raw materials and energy transport routes in the wider middle east, also linked to their stance towards iran in the light of the agreement on its nuclear programme. parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments were used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments were used effectively. these features of the iranian capitalist economy based on the savage exploitation of the iranian working class are a magnet for monopolies in the eu. the report also highlights this by drawing up a plan for their penetration with foreign direct investment, focusing on specific sectors such as the automotive industry, aircraft manufacturing, energy infrastructure, renewable energy sources, etc. on the other hand, 'human rights' as understood by the eu will continue to be a pretext for political pressure, facilitating the ambitions of business groups. the people have nothing to expect from such competition and agreements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution, because it refers to the introduction of additional legislative provisions to fill possible gaps in the fight against organised crime and corruption and aims to improve cross-border cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the the vote on the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution comes at a time when we are all aware of the importance of fighting corruption in the public and private sectors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a way that is compatible with the common market. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ organised crime has a cross-border dimension and includes a number of different criminal activities, including drug trafficking, migrant smuggling, money laundering and trafficking in counterfeit goods, firearms, wildlife and cultural goods: the report fails to set a proper framework, as have the relevant international conventions and initiatives aimed at combating corruption and illicit financial flows, since they fail to produce concrete results at the implementation stage.
in writing. ‒ the organised crime has a cross-border dimension and includes a number of different criminal activities, including drug trafficking, migrant smuggling, money laundering and trafficking in counterfeit goods, firearms, wildlife and cultural goods. the report fails to set a proper framework, as have the most relevant international conventions and initiatives aimed at combating corruption and illicit financial flows, since they fail to produce concrete results at the implementation stage. for these reasons, i am voting against the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of mrs ferrara's report because the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering must be a political priority for the eu institutions. for this reason, police and judicial cooperation between member states is of fundamental importance. the report recalls that member states, in the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering, should transpose and implement existing instruments at union and international level.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 24 october 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the fight against corruption, using the existing and in any case condemnable phenomena of organised crime, money laundering, tax havens, drug trafficking, human trafficking, etc., promotes the strengthening of police and judicial cooperation (europol and eurojust) and eurasia, by enlarging the vast network of repression, information exchange and surveillance mechanisms, to the detriment of the popular labour movement. it is characteristic that the eurovision advertisement under preparation, which is made with the convenient excuse of 'fighting financial fraud against the eu', is already asked in the report to extend its powers to 'fighting organised crime'. corruption, tax havens, financial and other fraud are inherent in capitalist profit and the capitalist economy that serves it, and which the eu and its constituent mechanisms not only leave untouched but in every way reward and reproduce. it is clear that workers must not rest easy and must be on the alert, intensifying their struggle against old and new repressive mechanisms that shield the eu itself and the real opponent they serve, the monopolies and their power.
in writing. ‒ the organised crime has a cross-border dimension and includes a number of different criminal activities, including drug trafficking, migrant smuggling, money laundering and trafficking in counterfeit goods, firearms, wildlife and cultural goods. the report fails to set a proper framework, as have the most relevant international conventions and initiatives aimed at combating corruption and illicit financial flows, since they fail to produce concrete results at the implementation stage.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the fight against corruption, which takes the existing and in any case condemnable phenomena of organised crime, money laundering, tax havens, drug trafficking, human trafficking, etc., as a pretext, calls for the strengthening of police and judicial cooperation (europol and eurojust) and euronews, by enlarging the vast network of repression, information exchange and surveillance mechanisms, to the detriment of the workers' movement. it is characteristic that the euro-agency in question, which is carried out under the convenient pretext of 'fighting financial fraud against the eu', is already asked in the report to extend its powers to 'fight organised crime'. corruption, tax havens, financial and other fraud are inherent in capitalist profit and the capitalist economy that serves it, and which the eu and its constituent mechanisms not only leave untouched but in every way reward and reproduce. it is clear that workers must not rest easy and must be on the alert, intensifying their struggle against old and new repressive mechanisms that shield the eu itself and the real opponent they serve, the monopolies and their power.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on human rights and migration to third countries because it addresses important issues such as improving the quality of life of migrants and their economic and cultural independence through access to both health care and training and employment programmes.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on human rights and migration to third countries. in particular, since the outbreak of the refugee crisis, it has become clear to everyone how important it is for europe to take the lead in protecting and supporting human rights, especially for people who are forced to migrate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the migration is not a human right, but a symptom of a flawed economic system and the inability to find work in the country of origin. the union should find ways of ensuring the right to work and to a decent life for all citizens of the member states. the report's content, instead of addressing the problem, reinforces it, creating a vicious circle.
in writing. ‒ migration is not a human right, but a symptom of a flawed economic system and the inability to find work in the country of origin. the union should find ways of ensuring the right to work and to a decent life for all citizens of the member states. the report's content, instead of addressing the problem, reinforces it, creating a vicious circle. that is why i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report of mep vergiat as it is of utmost importance to make sure that the human rights of migrants and refugees are respected across europe. what is equally important is that the member states understand the complexity of the issue and cooperate, so as to help the member states receiving the refugees and immigrants by allowing the relocation mechanism to function. it is a collective approach that we need to adopt.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on human rights and migration to third countries for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 24 october 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ the the report documents findings about the hell that refugees and migrants are experiencing as they try to escape the fire of war that the eu and its allies and competitors are provoking. it refers to physical and psychological violence, restrictions and obstacles to decent housing and food, discrimination based on religion, language, etc., violations of labour law, difficulty in accessing education and many others, without specific measures, even for the relief of refugees and migrants. but the eu's policy prevents them from reaching their final destination, and they are also a bread and butter for the fascists to use to spread their racist poison. from this perspective, the report's calls on the member states to set an example in respecting human rights are invaluable, when eu and eu member states' decisions have closed borders, resulting in over 60,000 refugees and migrants being trapped in miserable living conditions in greece, italy and elsewhere. the european parliament's group of the european people's party voted in favour of the resolution, stressing the need to strengthen the struggle of the peoples against the repressive mechanisms of the eu, the dublin and schengen agreements, and the unacceptable confinement of refugees and migrants.
in writing. ‒ the migration is not a human right, but a symptom of a flawed economic system and the inability to find work in the country of origin. the union should find ways of ensuring the right to work and to a decent life for all citizens of the member states. the report's content, instead of addressing the problem, reinforces it, creating a vicious circle.
in writing. ‒ the the report documents findings about the hell that refugees and migrants are experiencing as they try to escape the fire of war that the eu and its allies and competitors are provoking. it refers to physical and psychological violence, restrictions and obstacles to decent housing and food, discrimination based on religion, language, etc., violations of labour law, difficulty in accessing education and many others, without specific measures, even for the relief of refugees and migrants. but the eu's policy prevents them from reaching their final destination, and they are also a bread and butter for the fascists to use to spread their racist poison. from this perspective, the report's calls on the member states to set an 'example' in respecting human rights are invaluable, when eu and eu member states' decisions have closed borders, resulting in over 60,000 refugees and migrants being trapped in miserable living conditions in greece, italy. the european parliament's group of the european people's party voted in favour of the resolution, stressing the need to strengthen the struggle of the peoples against the repressive mechanisms of the eu, the dublin and schengen agreements, and the unacceptable confinement of refugees and migrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries because it calls on all companies, european and non-european, to pay due attention to human rights issues and to integrate relevant findings into their internal policies with the appropriate allocation of resources.
in writing. ‒ the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries is a continuation of the european union's efforts to protect human rights. the recognition of corporate liability in third countries is an important step towards further protecting citizens and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights. the few cases where there are corporate liability violations are always done with the tolerance of corrupt state or local authorities and in most cases the companies involved in such practices are multinational. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. if the union wants to combat human rights violations in third countries, it can stop encouraging the financing of oppressive and criminal regimes such as those in turkey, occupied cyprus, saudi arabia and swaziland.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights. the few cases where there are corporate liability violations are always done with the tolerance of corrupt state or local authorities and in most cases the companies involved in such practices are multinational. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if the union wants to combat human rights violations in third countries, it can stop encouraging the financing of oppressive and criminal regimes such as those in turkey, occupied cyprus, saudi arabia and swaziland. i therefore vote against the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries.
in writing. ‒ it is important to protect the citizens of any country from human right abuses, even more when the initiator is a company. as the european union we have tried to always get better with regard to respect for human rights. corporate liability should be considered as the bare minimum for such occasions and this report moves to the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 24 october 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the report assigns the responsibility for protecting human rights in their activities to the companies themselves, in the context of corporate social responsibility, in short, 'putting the wolf in the fold'. the perception is fostered that most companies are 'good' and do not violate human rights, and therefore, as a matter of priority, procedures for voluntary 'self-regulation' of companies are proposed, with the creation of mechanisms of so-called 'risk assessment', etc. the report's calls on business groups and member states to respect human rights are pointless, since the criterion in any case is the highest possible profit. the proposals to introduce and promote the 'no infringements' brand ensure additional free advertising of their products and new privileges. it is concealed that, at the same time, these companies will continue to appropriate the wealth produced by workers for their own profit and that this exploitation of workers is "legal" for the eu and the bourgeois governments that serve the monopolies and their interests. the people must therefore overthrow them in order to defend their most fundamental right, which is to live without being exploited, without being robbed of their labour, with their own power and economy, with a break from the eu.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights. the few cases where there are corporate liability violations are always done with the tolerance of corrupt state or local authorities and in most cases the companies involved in such practices are multinational. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if the union wants to combat human rights violations in third countries, it can stop encouraging the financing of oppressive and criminal regimes such as those in turkey, occupied cyprus, saudi arabia and swaziland.
in writing. ‒ the the report assigns the responsibility for protecting human rights in their activities to the companies themselves, in the context of corporate social responsibility, in short, 'putting the wolf in the fold'. the perception is fostered that most companies are 'good' and do not violate human rights, and therefore, as a matter of priority, procedures for voluntary 'self-regulation' of companies are proposed, with the creation of mechanisms of so-called 'risk assessment', etc. the report's calls on business groups and member states to respect human rights are pointless, since the criterion in any case is the highest possible profit. the proposals to introduce and promote the 'no infringements' brand ensure additional free advertising of their products and new privileges. it is concealed that, at the same time, these companies will continue to appropriate the wealth produced by workers for their own profit and that this exploitation of workers is "legal" for the eu and the bourgeois governments, which serve the monopolies and their interests. that is why the peoples must overthrow them, to defend their most fundamental right to live without being exploited, without being robbed of their labour, with their own power and economy, with a break from the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy on lng and gas storage because the increase in lng on the world market is a good opportunity for the eu to diversify its energy supply.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the european union strategy on lng and gas storage fails to highlight the need for citizens to have access to these natural resources as a social issue. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. therefore, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the report because, with the exception of minor points, it is not in the interests of the european peoples, but, on the contrary, it promotes further rupture with russia, anti-people agreements with the usa and, in general, it moves within the same framework of the vague policies followed in general.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the european union's strategy on lng and gas storage, as it is not in the interests of the european people, 'except for minor points', but, on the contrary, it is promoting further rupture with russia and anti-people agreements with the usa and, more generally, it is moving in the same direction as the dead-end policies it generally follows.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu lng and gas storage strategy because it recalls that the eu lng and gas storage strategy is one of the elements of the energy union that translates the eu's ambition to rapidly develop into a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, and because it aims to end dependence on external gas suppliers and stresses that one of the objectives of the energy union is to make the eu a world leader in renewable energy sources.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the eu lng and gas storage strategy for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 24 october 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. the report aims to strengthen the internal capital market in energy in the eu and the groups active in this sector. it reflects the serious contradictions of the bourgeoisie and monopoly groups in the member states, particularly with regard to germany, and the international orientations of their 'energy alliances'. the majority of political representatives of capital in the european parliament appear to support the trend of decoupling from russian gas by shifting to imports from the usa, and for this reason, they attack the nord stream, the undersea pipeline of russia and germany, which serves the business groups of these countries. the same opposition is now being expressed to the russian-turkish gas pipeline. investments in transmission, distribution, storage, infrastructure, regasification stations, etc. with a focus on the south-east mediterranean and cross-business projects are both new profitable areas for monopolies, as is the use of liquefied natural gas in transport, mainly maritime (but also land-based). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. at the same time, energy is becoming a very expensive, inaccessible commodity for workers, demonstrating the huge gap between popular interests and the designs of eu and bourgeois governments, which are solely driven by the profits of the monopolies.
in writing. ‒ the report, with the exception of minor points, is not in the interest of the european peoples, but, on the contrary, promotes further rupture with russia and anti-people agreements with the usa and, in general, moves in the same context of the dead-end policies it follows in general.
in writing. ‒ the the report aims to strengthen the internal capital market in energy in the eu and the groups active in this sector. it reflects the serious contradictions of the bourgeoisie and monopoly groups in the member states, particularly with regard to germany, and the international orientations of their 'energy alliances'. the majority of political representatives of capital in the european parliament appear to support the trend of decoupling from russian gas by shifting to imports from the usa, which is why they attack the nord stream, the undersea pipeline between russia and germany, which serves the business groups of these countries. the same opposition is now being expressed to the russian-turkish gas pipeline. investments in transmission, distribution, storage, infrastructure, regasification stations, etc. with a focus on the south-east mediterranean and cross-business projects are both new profitable areas for monopolies, as is the use of liquefied natural gas in transport, mainly maritime (but also land-based). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. at the same time, energy is becoming a very expensive, inaccessible commodity for workers, demonstrating the huge gap between popular interests and the designs of eu and bourgeois governments, which are solely driven by the profits of the monopolies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on how to make fisheries controls uniform in europe because i believe that a simpler, more integrated and consistent legislation should be a priority, while aiming at increasing transparency, cooperation, innovation and the protection of labour and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ the despite the commonly accepted need for better and more effective controls in the fisheries sector, the report on how to make fisheries controls uniform in europe fails to analyse how new control techniques will be assimilated using new technologies, and how member states will be able to maintain the possibility of such controls. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. ‒ controls in fisheries are of great importance in combating the negative effects of this vital activity. illegal fishing and uncontrolled fishing during breeding seasons must be curbed in order to preserve breeding stock and marine populations. however, in no case should recreational and coastal fishing be compared with large-scale commercial fishing.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on how to make fisheries controls uniform in europe, as fisheries controls are of great importance in combating the negative effects of this vital activity. illegal fishing and uncontrolled fishing during breeding seasons must be curbed in order to preserve breeding stock and marine populations. but in no case should recreational and coastal fishing be compared with large-scale commercial fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i support the uniform application of the regulations and, therefore, the effectiveness of fisheries control rules in europe. it is essential to establish a european training of auditors and to develop a single reference framework in the field of audit. training for fishermen should also be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on how to make fisheries controls uniform in europe, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 24 october 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ controls in fisheries are of great importance in combating the negative effects of this vital activity. illegal fishing and uncontrolled fishing during breeding seasons must be curbed in order to preserve breeding stock and marine populations. but in no case should recreational and coastal fishing be compared with large-scale commercial fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the interconnection and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe because i believe that restoring missing links and improving transport infrastructure more generally will have tangible benefits both for the mobility of passengers and goods and for strengthening the security of the eu's eastern borders.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on improving the interconnection and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that this report focuses almost exclusively on economic issues, ignoring the need to consider the social implications and needs of citizens and, above all, of workers, has led me to vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed to the report because it promotes projects in already developed countries, such as germany, while giving very little weight to countries that really need to build infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on improving the interconnection and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe, as it promotes projects in already developed countries such as germany, while giving very little weight to countries that really need to build infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ economic activities in europe and the quality of life of our citizens depend to a large extent on high-quality transport links. at eu level, the trans-european transport network (ten-t) aims to develop a single multimodal transport network across the eu, which will promote the interconnection and interoperability of national networks and their access to it. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 24 october 2016, i abstained from voting on the report because it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the report promotes projects in already developed countries, such as germany, while giving very little weight to countries that really need to build infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, because i believe that it is imperative to adopt a framework that allows the eu to address not only violations of specific eu legislation, but also more serious threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights has a generally positive outlook. however, further specifications are needed as regards the guarantees of impartiality of the proposed mechanism and the nature of any sanctions against member states when they violate citizens' fundamental rights. the question of infringements arising from the requirements of the union institutions vis-à-vis the member states must also be addressed. i therefore consider that there are important gaps in the proposal and have decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the the eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is invalid and illegal because, on the one hand, it is provided for in article 7 of the treaty, and on the other hand, it violates the principle of interinstitutional agreements. it is another attempt by professional manipulators to trample on the national policies of the member states. it is unacceptable and undemocratic to give a new authority the power to monitor member states, and it is a waste of resources, since there are already international bodies monitoring violations of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the the eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is invalid and illegal because, on the one hand, it is provided for in article 7 of the treaty, and on the other hand, it violates the principle of interinstitutional agreements. i therefore vote against this report, because it is another attempt by professional manipulators to trample on the national policies of the member states. it is unacceptable and undemocratic to give a new authority the power to monitor member states, and it is a waste of resources, since there are already international bodies monitoring violations of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the efforts by the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, to remind a member state of its commitments are met with reluctance or a clear refusal to recognise the commonly agreed rules and the eu's competence to enforce those rules. the commission's intervention has so far proved to be inadequate and arbitrary. moreover, the eu institutions themselves sometimes fail to comply with basic principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. it is therefore imperative to establish a framework that allows the eu to address not only violations of specific eu laws but also (the risk of) serious threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the proposed interinstitutional agreement aims to establish arrangements to facilitate cooperation between the eu institutions and its member states under article 7 teu by consolidating, aligning and complementing existing mechanisms. it will also provide for an integrated examination mechanism, applicable to all member states as well as to the three main eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report containing recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 25 october 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is invalid and illegal because, on the one hand, it is provided for in article 7 of the treaty, and on the other hand, it violates the principle of interinstitutional agreements. it is another attempt by professional manipulators to trample on the national policies of the member states. it is unacceptable and undemocratic to give a new authority the power to monitor member states, and it is a waste of resources, since there are already international bodies monitoring violations of fundamental rights.
the commission mr president, the commission's 2017 work programme includes measures to address the ongoing challenges of the member states of the union in various areas such as employment, growth and investment. the commission's work programme is expected to provide €8.5 billion of funding for innovation and research, and will take measures to boost employment and tackle the economic and refugee crises affecting member states. however, as the 2016 work programme showed, mr timmermans, the commission's growth targets have not paid off, with some member states in the european south, and in particular greece, recording even higher levels of unemployment. the funds that the european union is giving to greece are tiny compared to the real needs that exist. the european union is therefore unfortunately increasing unemployment in europe through its policy of austerity and violent budgetary adjustment, instead of adhering to the objectives of the work programme and promoting growth and investment.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. it is the legitimization of massive redistribution, the theft of people's labour, with budgets by definition and proven anti-people, the kind that juncker himself admitted had triggered unemployment and poverty. you are making a mockery of the money supposedly given by the european union. the source of the union's and national budgets is the taxes paid by the people. the monopoly is profitable, it is exempt from taxation, it is given billions as incentives and wars are fought for its interests with millions of refugees. the contradictions are about which state, which monopolies will be strengthened the most. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 1994 to 1999 is a very good one. for every euro that goes to monopolies, crushing wages, pensions, social rights. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union. it is only being overthrown, along with the monopolies that created it.
the commission madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, the revision of the financial framework 2014-2020, without changing the amounts allocated to the member states, is intended to respond to challenges that have arisen since the establishment of the budget. in other words, with the same money we must undertake extraordinary actions. parliament adopted the commission proposal for the creation of the crisis response pool as a specific instrument with the obvious objectives of addressing the humanitarian crisis and filling security gaps. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. it is interesting that the commission is incorporating our idea of using the unallocated funds to deal with crises - and here i would like to specifically mention the contribution of the rapporteur, mr olbrycht - but it seems that the funding is not enough. we need to control the way in which european taxpayers' money is not lost along the way and ultimately cures, as far as possible, the effects of the refugee crisis. the question of efficiency is also raised in the allocation of resources to tackle youth unemployment. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the directive to reduce social security contributions for firms that employ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission madam president, the european union needs to revise the multiannual financial framework in order to be able to respond to the challenge of the economic and financial crisis. in particular, in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, the ceiling for spending on supporting the development of the union states is set at eur 125,61 billion, while the ceiling for security and citizenship issues is set at eur 15,69 billion. however, mrs georgieva, the scale of the current economic and refugee crisis affecting europe requires greater amounts of spending and active solutions if it is to be adequately dealt with. it calls for an immediate abandonment of austerity to stop the armies of unemployed and poverty in the countries of the european south, and for the immediate implementation of relocations to deal with the refugee crisis. finally, the revision of the multiannual financial framework should be reflected in the union budget and the appropriations for the current economic and rescue crisis should be increased.
the commission madam president, the multiannual financial framework as a means of expressing the union's economic policy is a failed model. the current multiannual financial framework has failed to address challenges that arose in the first half of its implementation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter. it is, if anything, foolish to plan the allocation of financial resources seven years in advance, using ceilings and enforcing them, while at the same time pursuing growth and innovation. this tactic leads to distortions of political priorities and strategic objectives, and to a lack of response to emerging threats. the existing multiannual financial framework does not have the flexibility and structure to deal with an armed conflict, for example, between a member state and an acceding third country. it is obvious that, even after brexit, it has no mechanism to deal with the withdrawal of another member state from the union and the collapse of solidarity within nato, situations which are possible and not just possible.
the commission the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further aggravated by the situation in the former yugoslavia. the proof is before you today: a budget based on failed policies such as the famous juncker plan, the forcible relocation and assimilation of migrants from eu countries, the submission to the blackmail of turkey and its financing to drown human souls in the aegean by pushing jihadists onto european soil, the recognition of the occupying forces of cyprus as a turkish cypriot community and the recruitment of personnel for the benefit of the political groups in this parliament, while at the same time imposing a horizontal 5% reduction on the rest of the staff. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will then be able to take it up again. unfortunately, the people who suffer from your misguided policies are the common people. to them, first say a big apology and then walk away, for their own good. from there, the nationalists will take over.
the commission mr president, it is clear that the 2017 budget of the european union must respond to the needs of the economic and refugee crisis. in practice, the budget provides for eur 1.5 billion for the youth employment initiative and eur 5.2 billion for the refugee crisis. but, mrs georgieva, as you know, the problems are insurmountable and the sums are paltry compared with the real needs. take, for example, the refugee crisis. we have enormous refugee pressures. take greece, for example. there are over 60,000 trapped refugees and illegal immigrants in greece. greece as a state has so far spent 2.5 billion euros. the sums given by the european union are not enough. there must be an increase in funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. employment must be strengthened. there are armies of unemployed throughout the european south and in greece. you realize that there must be an increase in appropriations and, in particular, there must be a change of strategy, an end to the policy of austerity and, above all, an end to this violent budgetary adjustment.
the commission mr president, according to the european semester 2016 package, each member state of the union should aim to strengthen its economy and fight unemployment. however, the european union's attitude to the countries of the european south so far is not helping to achieve the objectives of the european semester. on the contrary, the european union, with the austerity policies it has imposed, has led to the dismantling of industrial relations, the reduction of wages and pensions, the dismantling of employment and the social state. the implementation of the objectives of the european semester is therefore far from reality. to achieve the objective of economic development in the member states of the union, the merkel austerity and the draconian stability pact that govern all the policies of the european union, as well as the tax-avoidance policies imposed on countries such as greece, must be abandoned and instead the economic support of european countries with decent wages and working conditions and measures to strengthen the triple social alpha must be promoted.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, according to oecd studies, aggressive tax planning and the tax avoidance and evasion practices of many companies cost the global economy losses of between 100 and 240 billion dollars a year. in the european union, losses due to this process are estimated at between eur 50 and 70 billion per year. it is time to create a fair tax system without grey areas and tax ruling practices at the european level. all the member states of the union should take measures to ensure that multinational companies are taxed in the country where they make their profits and stop turning to tax havens such as the netherlands or luxembourg. they should also stop using the practice of intra-family transactions, thereby avoiding tax and depriving the state budgets of huge tax revenues. the countries of europe are not going to get on the road to growth as long as there are companies that evade and avoid taxes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. we ask that it be implemented quickly, because we, the disabled, need to be able to access the websites of public bodies to request a certificate, schedule a visit to a hospital, file a tax return without the hassle. to many, all of this is taken for granted, but to us, the disabled, the simplest things seem like luxuries. i suggest that the members of the commission put themselves in our position for a moment to understand how much they have delayed the directive we are waiting for from 2012. if they felt our needs, we would live in a better europe.
i shall continue with my speakers, mrs sehnal of the committee, etc., as i see the great positive aspects of this proposal. in short, if the main agenda of the imco committee for this election period is the possibility of establishing a digital market, then the question must be asked how to establish this market so that it is accessible to citizens. to address accessibility, especially for people with disabilities or health problems. this is what this proposal is about, this is what this directive is about, and i very much welcome and support it, because if the directive is adopted, then it will allow disabled people to have better access to the internet and mobile applications that are created by public institutions. this is extremely important in my view, because we need to remove the handicaps of disabled and elderly citizens, because according to statistics, there are currently about 80 million people in the eu with disabilities, but it is expected that by 2020 up to 120 million people may have some disability, so it makes sense. the only thing i can say about this proposal is that i think it is too bureaucratic in terms of the mandatory reports that the member states have to send to the commission in brussels to assess whether or not the countries are complying with this directive.
the commission madam president, information and service providers, such as public bodies, are increasingly relying on the internet. it is therefore necessary to respect certain principles in the design, construction and maintenance of websites and mobile applications in order to make them more accessible to users. in addition, each member state should build on the agreed accessibility requirements in order to benefit public sector bodies from the cheaper provision of products and services related to internet accessibility. finally, it is expected that smes belonging to the providers of accessible websites and applications will also benefit and thus contribute to economic growth and job creation within the european union.
the commission madam president, plant health is a key factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, forestry and, more generally, for the biodiversity of the member states of the union. the current union regulatory framework on plant health aims to prevent the introduction and spread of harmful organisms that can destroy european agriculture and forestry. but so far we have not seen the desired results of this policy. the high volume of plant species imports from other continents implies a high potential for the establishment of pest outbreaks, while climate change allows those organisms to survive in europe and makes crops and ecosystems more vulnerable to new pests. the classic example is xylella, which destroyed thousands of olive trees in greece and italy. it is therefore necessary for the union to take measures to ensure that specific restrictions and requirements are respected when plant products are imported and moved.
the commission madam president, plant health is an important factor in the conservation of forests, shrubland and public and private green spaces, and contributes both to the development of agriculture and to the preservation of jobs associated with these activities. we must protect our producers from the introduction, especially from other continents, of pests which affect european trees which are not so resistant to them. so if trees are destroyed, agriculture, forestry, horticulture will be destroyed. the european union must therefore take the necessary measures to ensure that this phenomenon is both legally covered and dealt with in practice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, the food industry is now increasingly using trans fatty acids as they are a cheap ingredient in the production process and their use guarantees long life in the products. however, high consumption of trans fatty acids has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and is a risk factor for developing coronary heart disease, which is responsible for approximately six hundred and sixty thousand deaths per year in the european union. at the same time, in the member states of the union, most of the population lacks adequate information on trans fats and their health effects, while at the same time, action by european countries to reduce the consumption of trans fats is limited. it is therefore necessary for the european union to propose mandatory limit values for trans fatty acids in order to improve the health of the citizens of the european union.
the commission mr schultz, despite your anti-communist delirium this morning, hungary's history is not being rewritten. what did the overthrow of socialism and its conquests bring? unemployment, poverty, exploitation, wars, refugees, which is capitalism. that's what history is recording today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the european union and the united states have ignited a new war in mosul to control the energy that is causing new waves of refugees trapped in miserable conditions, by your joint decision. it is urgently necessary to fight against the imperialist war and to immediately decongest the hotspots, the reception centres on the greek islands, to allow the transport of refugees and migrants to their final destination countries. the commission notes that the ceta agreement does not provide for any specific rules on the participation of the walloon region in the ceta. this is about who will have the upper hand in enforcing standards that serve their profits at the expense of their competitors. it's a confrontation over the division of the spoils, about new anti-labor measures, concessions of social services to monopolies, to act unimpeded by trampling on popular rights to work, health, education, environmental protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the ceta is not applied to the countries of central and eastern europe. the peoples must reject calls for a better or more transparent agreement and fight for the withdrawal of ceta and ttip and any other reactionary agreement, aiming to overthrow the real rival: the monopolies, their associations and the exploitative system itself. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment. a fierce war is being waged between big interests for control of the markets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the peoples have other interests which are not compatible with such agreements and they must collectively organise their struggle without delay beyond these competitions. the european parliament has been a party to the negotiations on the new gatt agreement, and it has been a party to the negotiations on the new gatt agreement.
the commission madam president, once again the leaders of the union countries during the summit continued their wishes and findings. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and it is therefore important that the commission should take the necessary steps to ensure that this is not the case. the european border guard, the revision of the schengen border code and the creation of a european travel authorisation and information system for the protection of external borders are not needed. all that is required is the application of international law. an illegal immigrant does not have the rights of a refugee. the european union must also take the necessary measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not forced to leave the country, and that the european union is not forced to take action against the turkish authorities. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter. the leaders condemn in a statement the attacks by the syrian regime and russia against civilians in aleppo. why is it that none of the 27 greatest leaders condemn the islamic state? i wonder.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, mr tusk and mr juncker, greece and italy need effective solidarity on the refugee front, not flexible solidarity, not solidarity à la carte, not the kind of solidarity that mr orban allows you to have. and i expect you, mr juncker, and you, mr tusk, to be more strict in mr orban's à la carte europe and not to pet him because he belongs to the european people's party. europe will be torn apart if you tolerate an à la carte europe, where hungary, poland and other countries want european funds but do not accept a single refugee in their countries. and also, stop bullying against the wallonian authorities. the objections and concerns are well founded and can lead to changes in ceta in favour of not only free but fair trade. we're tired of hearing only words. we want practical solidarity and a europe with a plan and with a coherence.
the commission i have heard that you mentioned greece for only 10 seconds. do you think the issue is resolved with regard to immigrants and refugees? do you have any idea what 's going on in the aegean islands ? you know there are 14,000 people trapped in there? you know there's only 7,000 guest seats? are you aware that the european union does not allow greece to take the side of these refugees and bring them to mainland greece? do you know that of the 66,400 relocations that were supposed to have been made a year ago, only 5,200 have been made? is that a condition? are you allowed to devote even 10 seconds to your speech on the refugee issue in greece? and furthermore, do you want dublin iii to be used to return from germany all the refugees who have passed through and gone there? this is unacceptable! your attitude is unacceptable!
the commission madam president, as expected, the council has not taken any substantive decision to solve the problems facing the european union. the european union has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against terrorism in the past. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the council of ministers is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. so instead of threatening turkey with a break in accession relations, they are moving to review their visa commitments. they're also celebrating the creation of the coast guard and the border patrol. but how can we deal with this bureaucratic organization which does nothing more than escort illegal immigrants from turkey to greece and register them? the problem is not solved by recording. he's facing a deterrent. finally, in foreign policy we have unilateral condemnation of russia and syria and, ironically, we do not mention the other forces involved, such as the jihadists, the united states and the other powers.
in writing. ‒ the this budget envisages the implementation of failed policies such as the juncker plan, the forcible relocation and assimilation of refugees from union countries, the submission to turkey's blackmail and its financing to drown human souls in the aegean by promoting jihadists on european soil, the recognition of the occupying forces of cyprus as a turkish cypriot community and the recruitment of staff for the benefit of the political groups in this parliament, while at the same time imposing a horizontal 5% reduction in the remaining staff. the union budget should take into account current challenges and threats and aim to address them. at the same time, it should promote policies that lead to decent work, sustainable growth and ensure balances between the economically strong and the correspondingly weak economies of the member states. the commission's concern must be the well-being of the citizens of all the member states. for the above reasons, i am voting against all parts of the draft general budget of the european union for 2017.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the ratification of the eu general budget. however, we cannot under any circumstances consider that the union budget is sufficient to meet the major challenges we face. the union's financial capacity is built on its budget and an agency like the eu cannot function as a political dwarf because of its disproportionately small budget.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the draft general budget of the european union for 2017 - all sections, because it is not complete and documented.
in writing. once again, the same ill-conceived farce is being repeated to mislead the people about the size of the eu budget, with a certain outcome, as always: the agreement to redistribute the wealth produced by the people to the monopolies, also through the community budget. all the political groups are moving towards supporting the groups with eu money from the budget. in the same vein, the draft budget calls for more money for the juncker fund and the funds of the 'cohesion funds', which are being disseminated by business groups, as well as for the 'horizon 2020' (research and business innovation) and 'connecting europe' (infrastructure networks) programmes, which are geared towards new capital-efficient projects. the cap allocations for large farms are also being increased. additional funding is being provided to promote eu imperialist interventions, providing additional funds for europol, for the creation of a 'counter-terrorism unit', for the 'european counter-terrorism centre', for defence research funds and the eu external action service. at the same time, increased funding is also provided for the anti-communist programme 'a europe for the people'. in short, more money for the monopolies, more financing for the multifaceted imperialist aggression of the eu monopolies at the expense of the peoples.
in writing. ‒ the union budget must take account of current challenges and threats and aim to address them. at the same time, it should promote policies that lead to decent work, sustainable growth and ensure balances between the economically strong and the correspondingly weak economies of the member states. the commission's main concern must be the well-being of the citizens of all the member states.
in writing. ‒ the once again, the same ill-conceived charade is being repeated to mislead the people about the size of the eu budget, with the result, as always, being the agreement to redistribute the wealth produced by the people to the monopolies, also through the community budget. all the political groups are moving towards supporting the groups with eu money from the budget. in the same vein, the draft budget calls for more money for the juncker fund and the 'cohesion funds' funds, which are being spun off by business groups, as well as for the 'horizon 2020' (research and business innovation) and 'connecting europe' (infrastructure networks) programmes, which are geared towards new capital-efficient projects. the cap allocations for large farms are also being increased. additional funding is being provided to promote eu imperialist interventions, providing additional funds for europol, for the creation of a 'counter-terrorism unit', for the 'european counter-terrorism centre', for defence research funds and the eu external action service. at the same time, increased funding is also provided for the anti-communist programme 'a europe for the people'. in short, more money for the monopolies, more financing for the multifaceted imperialist aggression of the eu monopolies at the expense of the peoples.
in writing. ‒ the union budget must take account of current challenges and threats and aim to address them. at the same time, it should promote policies that lead to decent work, sustainable growth and ensure balances between the economically strong and the correspondingly weak economies of the member states. the commission's main concern must be the well-being of the citizens of all the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 25 october 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. once again, the same ill-conceived farce is being repeated to mislead the people about the size of the eu budget, with a certain outcome, as always: the agreement to redistribute the wealth produced by the people to the monopolies, also through the community budget. all the political groups are moving towards supporting the groups with eu money from the budget. in the same vein, the draft budget calls for more money for the juncker fund and the 'cohesion funds' funds, which are being spun off by business groups, as well as for the 'horizon 2020' (research and business innovation) and 'connecting europe' (infrastructure networks) programmes, which are geared towards new capital-efficient projects. the cap allocations for large farms are also being increased. additional funding is being provided to promote eu imperialist interventions, providing additional funds for europol, for the creation of a 'counter-terrorism unit', for the 'european counter-terrorism centre', for defence research funds and the eu external action service. at the same time, increased funding is also provided for the anti-communist programme 'a europe for the people'. in short, more money for the monopolies, more financing for the multifaceted imperialist aggression of the eu monopolies at the expense of the peoples.
in writing. ‒ the union budget must take account of current challenges and threats and aim to address them. at the same time, it should promote policies that lead to decent work, sustainable growth and ensure balances between the economically strong and the correspondingly weak economies of the member states. the commission's main concern must be the well-being of the citizens of all the member states.
in writing. ‒ the once again, the same ill-conceived charade is being repeated to mislead the people about the size of the eu budget, with the result, as always, being the agreement to redistribute the wealth produced by the people to the monopolies, also through the community budget. all the political groups are moving towards supporting the groups with eu money from the budget. in the same vein, the draft budget calls for more money for the juncker fund and the 'cohesion funds' funds, which are being spun off by business groups, as well as for the 'horizon 2020' (research and business innovation) and 'connecting europe' (infrastructure networks) programmes, which are geared towards new capital-efficient projects. the cap allocations for large farms are also being increased. additional funding is being provided to promote eu imperialist interventions, providing additional funds for europol, for the creation of a 'counter-terrorism unit', for the 'european counter-terrorism centre', for defence research funds and the eu external action service. at the same time, increased funding is also provided for the anti-communist programme 'a europe for the people'. in short, more money for the monopolies, more financing for the multifaceted imperialist aggression of the eu monopolies at the expense of the peoples.
in writing. ‒ the the multiannual financial framework, as an instrument for the union's economic policy, is a failed model. the current mff has failed to address the challenges that have emerged in the first half of its implementation. the planning of the allocation of financial resources over seven years, using annual ceilings and enforcing their observance while simultaneously pursuing growth and innovation, leads to distortions of political priorities and strategic objectives, but also to a lack of attention to emerging threats and challenges.
in writing. ‒ the the multiannual financial framework as an instrument of the union's economic policy is a failed model. the current mff has failed to address the challenges that have emerged in the first half of its implementation. the planning of allocating financial resources over seven years, using annual ceilings and enforcing their respect, while at the same time seeking growth and innovation leads to distortions of political priorities and strategic objectives, but also to a lack of attention to emerging threats and challenges. i am therefore voting against the mid-term review of the cap.
in writing. ‒ we cannot but underline the inadequacy of the mff in relation to the real needs of the european union, such as the recent crises in the refugee sector, agricultural products, the adequacy of the efsi funding and the high financial needs arising for the union in emergency situations. it requires a significant extension of the mip.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the mid-term review of the mff 2014-2020 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 25 october 2016 and because the report in question is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the multiannual financial framework as an instrument of the union's economic policy is a failed model. the current mff has failed to address the challenges that have emerged in the first half of its implementation. the planning of allocating financial resources over seven years, using annual ceilings and enforcing their respect, while at the same time seeking growth and innovation leads to distortions of political priorities and strategic objectives, but also to a lack of attention to emerging threats and challenges.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, at the request of estonia. the objective of this fund is specific and we are called upon to respond whenever the realignments in the globalised economy directly affect workers who are in danger of losing their jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address this situation.
in writing. ‒ this report refers to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address this situation, which is why i am opposing the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following an application from estonia - egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address this situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications, because i believe that in an inclusive digital society it is important to ensure that everyone has access to public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i do not think that any effort to organise and introduce electronic technology into the public sector, which is of course necessary, should be linked to the single market or the unlimited movement of people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a proposal from the un on the rights of persons with disabilities. the aim of this report is to increase the web-accessibility (websites and mobile applications) of public service for all people, including people with disabilities. there was some improvements in this second reading, the report presented some new technical specificities in particular that some common accessibility requirements must be fulfilled. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 25 october 2016, and because this report is sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ any effort to organise and introduce electronic technology in the public sector, which is of course necessary, must be related to the single market or the unrestricted movement of people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants, amending regulations (eu) no 228/2013, (eu) no 652/2014 and (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directives 69/464/eec, 74/647/eec, 93/85/eec, 98/57/ec, 2000/29/ec, 2006/91/ec and 2007/33/ec, as the new legislation should ensure a high level of safety for the eu as regards imports of plants and plant products.
in writing. ‒ the recent experience with xylella fastidiosa has shown the gaps in the regulations on organisms harmful to plants. globalisation, e-commerce and new conditions must be taken into account in order to protect europe's flora. the union must of course recognise that there are other ways of tackling diseases than eradication and must develop a plant health management strategy to reduce the time taken to tackle them. we note that uprooting carries other risks and that the national and regional authorities should be given the option of restraint.
in writing. ‒ the i am opposed to protective measures against plant pests as the recent experience with xylella fastidiosa shows the gaps in the regulations on plant pests. globalisation, e-commerce and new conditions must be taken into account in order to protect europe's flora. the union must of course recognise that there are other ways of tackling diseases than eradication and must develop a plant health management strategy to reduce the time taken to tackle them. i would point out that uprooting carries other risks and that the national and regional authorities should be given the option of restraint.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants, amending regulations (eu) no 228/2013, (eu) no 652/2014 and (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directives 69/464/eec, 74/647/eec, 93/85/eec, 98/57/ec, 2000/29/ec, 2006/91/ec and 2007/33/ec, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 25 october 2016, and because this report is sufficiently timely.
in writing. ‒ the recent experience with xylella fastidiosa has shown the gaps in the regulations on organisms harmful to plants. globalisation, e-commerce and new conditions must be taken into account in order to protect europe's flora. the union must of course recognise that there are other ways of tackling diseases than eradication and must develop a plant health management strategy to reduce the time taken to tackle them. we note that uprooting carries other risks and that the national and regional authorities should be given the option of restraint.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester on economic policy coordination and the implementation of the 2016 priorities because the eu and its member states should optimise the implementation of the revised economic policy mix, which aims at increasing investment and is linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, including quality of employment, education and innovation.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination and in particular the implementation of the priorities for 2016. i believe that, as in similar cases in the past, the exclusive focus on conservative policies that burden european society and citizens, without a disposition to change and self-criticism, has been recorded again. we cannot aim at recovery with this logic and that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the solution to the problems that the european union is causing to the economies of the member states of the region cannot be 'no more european union'. the union's economic and monetary policy, together with the migration crisis, which has leveled the peoples of the south, have failed and must be abandoned immediately. the continuation of the same failed policies will only exacerbate the problems facing countries such as cyprus and greece.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the european semester on economic policy coordination: implementation of the 2016 priorities. the solution to the problems that the european union is causing to the economies of the member states of the region cannot be 'no more european union'. the union's economic and monetary policy, together with the migration crisis, which has leveled the peoples of the south, have failed and must be abandoned immediately. the continuation of the same failed policies will only exacerbate the problems facing countries such as cyprus and greece.
in writing. ‒ the fiscal harmonisation in the eu is a necessary condition for achieving economic integration. however, the divergent views of the member states on fiscal policy are delaying this development. the european semester remains the main vehicle for fiscal harmonisation, but unfortunately it works unevenly for member states, especially for those with major budgetary problems. we need a progressive european semester to support policies that can reduce unemployment, absorb macroeconomic shocks and enable steady growth.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the european semester on economic policy coordination: implementation of the 2016 priorities for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 25 october 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the solution to the problems that the european union is causing to the economies of the member states of the region cannot be 'no more european union'. the union's economic and monetary policy, together with the migration crisis, which has leveled the peoples of the south, have failed and must be abandoned immediately. the continuation of the same failed policies will only exacerbate the problems facing countries such as cyprus and greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on trans fats because the consumption of large quantities of these fats poses significant risks to human health.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on limiting the use of materials such as trans fats calls us to act in the interests of the citizens of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of such materials in foodstuffs is not harmful.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report, as it is a positive step with significant benefits for the health of european citizens, although for us it is not the ideal proposal as we would require even more restrictions. we also disagree with the very long time allowed to the commission to set a maximum permitted level for trans-fat.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to assess the impact of appropriate means that could enable consumers to have healthier food. trans fats are not considered as safe and their percentage should be as low as possible. the resolution establishes a legal limit on the percentage of trans fats on the total fats per product. i voted in favour of this resolution, which had a large support within the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on trans fats for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 25 october 2016, and because this motion for a resolution is complete and well-founded.
in writing. the resolution on 'trans fatty acids' shows that the eu, in the service of corporate profits, is putting the lives and health of workers at great risk. the specific acids found in natural foods are mainly contained in industrially manufactured vegetable oils and in processed foods to extend their shelf life. they are used in cheap food intended for the working classes and are blamed for causing serious diseases. the resolution calls on the commission to present legislation to impose a limit on the content of 'trans-fats' in food, but combines this with the preparation of a report on the economic impact on industrial enterprises, under the pretext of passing on the cost to consumers. the intervention of the industries concerned was also characteristic, since they demanded and succeeded in not prohibiting, in the event of a restriction on trans fats, the use of substitutes, such as palm oil, which are equally dangerous. the kke group supports a complete ban on the use of trans fatty acids and a ban on their substitution by products of equivalent risk. it stresses that even the health of workers is being sacrificed on the altar of corporate profits, until the working people decide to take the keys to power and the economy into their own hands.
in writing. ‒ it is a positive step with major benefits for the health of european citizens, although for us it is not the ideal proposal as we would require even more restrictions. we also disagree with the very long time allowed to the commission to set a maximum permitted level for trans-fat.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution on 'trans fatty acids' shows that the eu, in the service of corporate profits, is putting the lives and health of workers at great risk. the specific acids found in natural foods are mainly contained in industrially manufactured vegetable oils and in processed foods to extend their shelf life. they are used in cheap food intended for the working classes and are blamed for causing serious diseases. the resolution calls on the commission to legislate on the imposition of a limit on the content of trans fats in food, but combines this with the preparation of a report on the economic impact on industrial enterprises, under the pretext of passing on the costs to consumers. the intervention of the industries concerned was also characteristic, since they demanded and succeeded in not prohibiting, in the event of a restriction on trans fats, the use of substitutes, such as palm oil, which are equally dangerous. the kke group supports a complete ban on the use of trans fatty acids and a ban on their substitution by products of equivalent risk. it stresses that even the health of workers is being sacrificed on the altar of corporate profits, until the working people decide to take the keys to power and the economy into their own hands.
the commission the european union's decline, as you have said, is mainly due to the policies it pursues and the results of its actions, because europe is now full of armies of unemployed people. we have poor people, we have huge problems. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. is it really enough for the unemployed? do they really reach smes? and here is the issue of transparency that everyone has been talking about. at the same time, there is the question of efficiency: does the european union's money work? so i want you to look at the refugee issue, where some money is being spent. it is not very much, especially the one for greece, but 345 million has been allocated. the question is: where does this money go, because right now the ngos that are getting the money are having a party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission mr president, the conclusions of the court of auditors' report raise serious concerns about the real purpose of the union's policies. the commission refuses to draw up a cash flow forecast with a depth of 7 to 10 years to facilitate those involved in the estimation of future payment needs. this is a hindrance to entrepreneurship and sustainability. they increase the financial means and are not directly financed by the union budget nor subject to the control of the court of auditors. this reinforces the lack of transparency. these two elements are sufficient to reflect reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report makes this quite clear. the european institutions have lost the confidence of the citizens of the union to a certain extent. the heads of institutions must change their policies, stop their manipulative techniques, and think of the people and not their own interests.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the first category is those who need real help, since they are leaving their country against their will, with measures to ensure care and human survival. their education must be in the language of their country of origin and, as far as possible, in accordance with its educational system. we must also make every effort to put an end to the situation which has forced them to become refugees, so that they can return to their countries an hour earlier. in the second category of minors, and provided that their migration has been through legal channels, it is the responsibility of the parent who has chosen to drag his child on this adventure to ensure his well-being. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected, and that the right to education is guaranteed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of minors against the dangers of trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of children. the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the rights of children are respected and that the rights of children are protected.
the commission mr president, mr commissioner, mr dimitri avramopoulos, i would like to begin by congratulating you on your name day. mr president, afghanistan is a country that has been in a state of war for 15 years following the american invasion. it is not possible, therefore, that afghan nationals should not be able to join the resettlement programme, not be considered refugees, while their country is at war. the european union should press the united states to accept its responsibilities and to take in the afghan refugees, which it has itself caused. but the more than ten thousand afghans trapped in greece, mr avramopoulos, and you know this very well, must also be relocated here and now, as must the syrians and iraqis. the common immigration policy would be a great initiative if it concerned pakistan or bangladesh. we would therefore like to have an update on this, commissioner.
the commission madam president, the death penalty in belarus is back on the scene after two years. the decision to resume the executions came just eight months after the european union foreign ministers decided to lift the asset freeze and travel bans on more than 150 citizens and officials of the country, including president alexander lukashenko. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter and the international covenant on civil and political rights. reports claim that the rights of the defence in death penalty cases are systematically violated, and that judicial authorities lack the necessary independence. the european union calls on the government of belarus to formally suspend all executions as a first step towards abolition of the death penalty. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected by the union budget. the right to life must not be taken away from anyone in any way.
the commission madam president, the persecution of publishers, journalists and those working in the press in general in turkey is not a recent phenomenon. it's been going on in various forms for thirty years. the current regime in power in the country does not discriminate politically either. since the ergenekon affair, kemalist and nationalist journalists have been persecuted alongside leftists and kurds, accused of being involved in propaganda for the pkk, which is known to be a terrorist organisation. turkish authorities target three categories of journalists: those covering corruption cases, those critical of the government and the kurds. they are accused of violating the anti-terrorism law as well as the turkish penal code. in order to intimidate and silence them, they arrest them without evidence, put them in high-security prisons with dangerous criminals without trial, leave them in detention for three to five years, and also blackmail their families. it's considered a crime to even report these events. in fact, since the coup, more journalists have been expelled than have been expelled worldwide. the european union is negotiating with this country, it wants to include it in its fold and it is succumbing to its blackmail.
the commission madam president, we all in this chamber condemn in the strongest terms the military coup of 15 july. but that does not allow us to remain silent about the destruction of the rule of law. the thousands of arrests of military, judicial, public officials, businessmen, the closure of newspapers, the arrest of journalists, the silencing of all media and the attempt to overthrow the bourgeois state, the secular state of kemal atatürk, the questioning of international agreements such as the lausanne treaty of 1923 defining the status of the straits, the new turkish borders with all neighbours and the exchange of populations with neighbouring countries, all these are actions that are directly contrary to international law. the call by the national orchestra of the 1920 turkish national assembly for a referendum in all the provinces of the ottoman empire and the references to the 'borders of our heart', as mr erdogan said, which include the borders of the old ottoman empire, cause legitimate concern and questions for everyone. the assurances given by turkish officials abroad that these statements are for domestic consumption do not reassure us, are not in line with the european acquis and european values and are driving turkey away from europe and the european family, with the sole responsibility of the political leadership.
s & d) and the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i would like to stress our absolute solidarity with the hundreds of thousands of turkish citizens and all the political parties who defended democracy on the night of 15 july. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they may give an illusion of absolute power, but it's not what this country needs right now. the democratic spirit of the citizens is proving very strong, because next to every journalist who goes to prison without any evidence of guilt, we see hundreds of citizens joining the solidarity movements with which we are today in solidarity. and with the coup it became clear that turkish democracy is not threatened by freedom of expression and fair trials. it is threatened by conflicts of powerful interests which threaten democracy from the very outset. i would like to conclude with the words of the deputy speaker of the turkish national assembly: 'the only way to protect democracy is to strengthen the secular state'.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the systemic lack of rule of law and respect for these freedoms is not a new phenomenon and is certainly not a symptom of the failed coup in the country. i would remind you that before the coup, freedom house described the media as not free, while turkey was ranked 151 out of 180 countries in terms of press freedom, the last in europe and the balkans. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. ladies and gentlemen, mr. erdogan will also be ignoring today's resolution. as long as the european union continues to pursue the same policy in relations with turkey, we as the european parliament will be limited to resolutions of condemnation without any result.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, every coup attempt creates emergency situations, but this coup seemed like the best gift to mr. erdogan. hundreds of journalists in jail, thousands out of work, hundreds of media outlets shut down. do you know how many years the more than 190 journalists accused are facing in prison? 2,150 years! for a trivial reason, can dündar, the candidate for the sakharov prize, was accused, imprisoned and sentenced for making a journalistic revelation. i hope that he will win the sakharov prize, because that will be the best response of our european parliament to turkey. we want good relations with the people of turkey. we want good relations with the country. but good relations based on respect for democracy, freedoms and freedom of the press.
the commission madam president, the international public has recently been watching erdoğan, the new sultan, systematically and openly persecute and imprison his political opponents. press silence is on the agenda. after the failed coup, erdogan has now proceeded to revoke the license of dozens of media outlets and arrest hundreds of journalists. the european union is not taking action against turkey, but is simply turning a blind eye to it and tolerating it. the european union is also prepared to take action to help the victims of the conflict in the region. it tolerates turkey, which constantly violates greek airspace and maritime territorial waters. it tolerates turkey and erdogan, who questions the treaty of lausanne. finally, when will the european union decide to take action against turkey in order to enforce the observance of international law in the region?
the commission i am glad that the european parliament has taken the initiative to discuss this resolution with a view to a total ban on nuclear weapons, which means, first of all, a ban on nuclear tests. secondly, the prohibition of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. thirdly, nuclear disarmament. but we must realize that this is not just a matter for third countries. it must also concern the member states of the european union. and this must be made clear, because for so long we have been hearing about countries other than the countries of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. and we know that all too well. but i don't hear any mention of it, and plants continue to operate, like the nuclear plants in doel or tihange in belgium, which should have been closed by 2015. there is kozloduy in bulgaria, which is a danger - death. what about those issues ? we shall examine them, commissioner.
the european union is not only a member of the international community, but also a member of the international community, and it is a member of the international community. there are large quantities of nuclear weapons in many countries, which are stored, in many cases, in conditions which do not meet the safety requirements. so these weapons, or any of these weapons, could be stolen by terrorists, so the resulting destruction would be nightmarish. there is also the possibility that countries with nuclear weapons will use them when a major crisis goes beyond the bounds of reason. other countries are also conducting nuclear tests. the european union must therefore, on the basis of the experience gained from its trade and contacts with iran on its nuclear programme, take the initiative and cooperate with the nuclear-weapon states in order to limit the proliferation of nuclear weapons, prevent the illicit trafficking of nuclear material and stop nuclear tests. that is why we are voting against the report.
the commission madam president, in order to ensure transparency and democratic accountability to the taxpayers of the european union, the european parliament has the power to grant, pursuant to articles 316, 317 and 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the union, separately, for each section of the budget. the european council and the council are therefore also concerned. the council, however, considers that it can act unchecked and autonomously by continuing to refuse to answer parliament's questions and to provide the annual report. the commission has also not yet separated the budgets of the european council and the council, despite the recent resolution. the expenditure of the council should be audited in the same way as that of the other institutions of the union. but the council is showing a lack of cooperation. it refuses to provide information on the costs of construction projects, such as the cost of the delayed completion of the europa building. i therefore support mr czarnecki's report which refuses to grant the secretary-general of the council a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the year 2014.
the first item on the agenda is the oral question to the commission on the european voluntary service (o-000107/2016 - b8-1803/2016) (2016/2872 (rsp))
the commission mr president, volunteering by definition has no material rewards, although many feel that, for reasons of sustainability, volunteering should be rewarded, not with a wage, but with free food, accommodation, transport and other facilities. it's a matter of concern to the volunteers and i'd like to point it out. but in addition to the informal form of volunteering, that is, the personal contribution, the formal form of volunteering has its good and bad sides. the good one is pretty well known. official volunteering has a substantive and long-term objective of smooth integration of young people into the social system, the acquisition of strong skills and the cultivation of solidarity with their fellow human beings. as a christian and a humanitarian, i applaud it. but the ugly side is also the most invisible and unknown to the public. official volunteering is mainly associated with ngos. the majority of ngos, which receive huge amounts of funding, exploit volunteers and treat them as cheap labour. the voluntary provision of services is thus used by some fraudsters as an excuse to enrich themselves by stealing national and community funds. i would therefore argue against the recognition of volunteering as co-financing. i would rather disagree with the promotion of access for third country nationals who wish to do voluntary work in europe. we must not open up channels for illegal immigrants, so-called volunteers, to settle on european soil.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, commissioner, the european voluntary service and all the programmes promoting volunteering must be treated with extreme caution. it must be ensured, first, that they promote the values of cooperation and solidarity and, second, that they are fully separated from actions which aim to replace the welfare state and state structures and to reinforce distorted patterns of unpaid work. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, in today's europe, in the europe of crisis, in today's context, the concept of volunteering is being used euphemistically. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commissioner, the economic crisis, unemployment, social problems are not natural phenomena which have arisen in some countries so suddenly and which can therefore be tackled by individual or private action. it is a result, as has been observed, of the neoliberal policies being implemented. volunteering is therefore a limited undertaking and cannot effectively address all these consequences. i want to give you, in closing, two pieces of information. in greece, in recent years, some 1200 young people have been involved in voluntary service programmes, while in the same period 250,000 greek scientists have emigrated to other countries, not voluntarily but compulsorily, in search of work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, volunteering is an expression of altruism, solidarity and cooperation. it strengthens citizens' participation in the fight against social exclusion, poverty and injustice. at the same time, volunteers, especially young people, can gain experience and enhance their sense of personal satisfaction. over the last twenty years, some 100,000 young people have taken part in international volunteering through european volunteering programmes, contributing to a variety of sectors such as the arts, health, sport, social welfare, etc. according to a eurobarometer survey conducted in april 2015, the most popular volunteering programmes are in the fields of charity with 44%, education with 40% and arts and culture with 15%. neoliberalism and the memoranda have dismantled the social structures of the state, with the result that volunteering, for reasons of social solidarity, is called upon to fill the gaps created by the decline of the welfare state. in greece of the memoranda, solidarity structures supported the impoverished greek people by setting up social pharmacies, social clinics, social grocery stores and social welfare services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, various shenanigans, taking advantage of the state's inability to respond to the recent pressures due to the refugee crisis, have, in the guise of volunteering, created various ngos and are now partying with european union funds for refugees, exploiting the poor refugees themselves. it is time, mr commissioner, mr navracsics, for olaf to take action to tackle these anti-social phenomena that sell volunteering and profit.
ecr), in writing. the austerity policy in greece over the last six years has hit hard at the workforce in our country. unemployment is a scourge of our society, especially among young people, with youth unemployment rates reaching 50%. the younger generations in our country are drowning in longterm unemployment, seasonal uninsured work and the exhausting €300 per hour. the consequence of the memorandum policies and the destruction of all productive sectors in our country is the tendency of the young generation to emigrate to other eu countries. according to the bank of greece, greece ranks fourth in the eu in terms of the mass of migration outflows in proportion to the country's labour force. in 2013 alone, more than 2% of the country's total workforce left to work abroad. the young people who are the main guarantors of greece's future will overturn the memoranda of misery and seek a better life.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all over europe, farmers are protesting. the main point to be made is that there is now a liberalisation of the markets, agricultural products from third countries are allowed to be imported duty free. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the problems are much more acute in greece in particular, because there is a policy of tax evasion imposed by the troika, there is an increase in the tax on agri-oil, there is an increase in agri-oil, the elimination of subsidies, but also government confiscations of subsidies for farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the embargo imposed on russia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help farmers.
the commission madam president, the european union's erroneous policy of subordinating agricultural policy to neighbourhood policy for reasons of political expediency and allowing the uncontrolled and massive inflow of duty-free products from third countries has exacerbated the existing problems in european agriculture and has resulted in a reduction in the number of farmers, their incomes and jobs in rural areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. agriculture, as an important factor in primary production, can cover a large part of the food needs of the population of the countries and, for this reason, must be watched. we must strengthen agricultural production, we must exploit the agricultural and forestry wealth and, moreover, we must stop unfair competition with products from third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, because i firmly believe that effective budgetary control requires the cooperation of parliament and the council.
in writing. ‒ the reported financial data must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to accept the exemption for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i reject the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council, because the financial data reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to allow the discharge to be granted for the financial year 2014, and because no discharge is granted to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ referring to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 26 october 2016, i vote in favour of the second report which does not grant a discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the reported data must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to accept the exemption for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because i support the actions of such joint undertakings in various fields, which offer many benefits to the daily lives of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the financial data reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to accept the exemption for the financial year 2014, without leaving any doubt as to the legality of the corresponding transactions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the financial data reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to accept the exemption for the financial year 2014, without leaving any doubt as to the legality of the respective transactions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because it is not complete and well documented and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 26 october 2016.
in writing. ‒ the financial data reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to accept the exemption for the financial year 2014, without leaving any doubt as to the legality of the corresponding transactions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because i support the actions of such joint undertakings in various fields, which offer many benefits to the daily lives of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the financial data reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to accept the exemption for the financial year 2014, without leaving any doubt as to the legality of the corresponding transactions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the second report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the ecsel jti invited the national funding authorities (nfa) to provide evidence that the execution of the national procedures provides reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. by the deadline of 30 june 2016, 76% of the fte invited, representing 96,79% of the common costs of artemis and the joint undertaking, submitted the required documents and confirmed that the execution of the national procedures provides reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it is not possible, however, to examine in depth the whole range of these expenditures. the financial data reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to accept the exemption for the financial year 2014, without leaving any doubt as to the legality of the respective transactions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the second report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because it is not complete and well documented and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 26 october 2016.
in writing. ‒ the information reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to accept the discharge for the financial year 2014, without leaving any doubt as to the legality of the respective acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion for the financial year 2014, because i support the actions of such joint undertakings in various fields, which bring many benefits to the daily lives of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the information reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to accept the discharge for the financial year 2014, without leaving any doubt as to the legality of the respective acts.
in writing. ‒ i reject the second report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion for the financial year 2014, as the information provided must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to rectify previous observations, to allow the discharge for the financial year 2014 to be accepted without leaving any doubt as to the legality of the corresponding acts. at this stage, the new director-general of the iter agency has submitted to the iter council an action plan containing concrete measures to address the key obstacles currently affecting the project's progress, which are being implemented and closely monitored and which have led to the successful completion of all project milestones to date, on time or ahead of the original timetable.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the second report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion for the financial year 2014, because it is not complete and well-founded and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 26 october 2016.
in writing. ‒ the information reported must be sufficient, accompanied by actions to remedy previous observations, to accept the discharge for the financial year 2014, without leaving any doubt as to the legality of the respective acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in iraq and mosul, because it refers to the ongoing and comprehensive effort to combat the terrorism promoted by isis/daesh.
in writing. ‒ we vote against the joint motion for a resolution. apart from the fact that no resolution even indicates turkey's destabilising role, the attempt to impose the creation of autonomous states within the republic of iraq is more than an unacceptable interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign country and serves turkey's plans. of course, we support and wish the swiftest possible collapse of the islamic caliphate.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motions for resolutions on the situation in northern iraq and mosul as a whole, because apart from the fact that no resolution even indicates turkey's destabilising role, the attempt to impose the creation of autonomous states within the republic of iraq is more than an unacceptable interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign country and serves turkey's plans. of course, i support and wish the swiftest possible collapse of the islamic caliphate.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in northern iraq/mosul because it is comprehensive and well-documented.
in writing. the european parliament resolution defiantly defends the imperialist war being waged by the eu and its us and nato allies in the wider middle east region, with syria and iraq at its centre, in the context of their fierce competition with other powers, such as russia. the kke had warned that the 'global strategy of the eu', the euro-army, the enhanced operational partnership between the eu and nato, the presence of nato in the aegean were the harbinger of new imperialist wars against the peoples. the european union, the united states and nato are crying crocodile tears over the victims and the refugees, and whatever peace proclamations they make, their dirty role in syria and iraq is clear. they're now opening a new front in mosul, slaughtering people for their energy rivalry with russia. the jihadists are a convenient pretext for their interventions in the region. turkey is also invading syria and iraq unhindered, indulging in a barrage of provocative violations, incendiary and unhistorical statements, such as those of erdogan, who questions international treaties and greek sovereign rights, who systematically pretends not to listen to the eu, the us and nato. the dangerous imperialist projects in which the syriza-anel government is actively involved can corrupt the peoples, in their struggle against monopolies and capitalism, their real enemies.
in writing. ‒ any attempt to resolve the crisis in the northern region of iraq must be made with respect for the sovereign rights of the state and human rights. particular emphasis should be placed on countering turkey's destabilising policy and actions in the region and on combating daesh.
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament resolution defiantly defends the imperialist war being waged by the eu and its us and nato allies in the wider middle east region, with syria and iraq at its centre, in the context of their fierce competition with other powers, such as russia. the kke had warned that the 'global strategy of the eu', the euro-army, the enhanced operational partnership between the eu and nato, the presence of nato in the aegean were the harbinger of new imperialist wars against the peoples. the european union, the united states and nato are crying crocodile tears over the victims and the refugees, and they are making declarations of peace, but their dirty role in syria and iraq is clear. they're now opening a new front in mosul, slaughtering people for their energy rivalry with russia. the jihadists are a convenient pretext for their interventions in the region. turkey is also invading syria and iraq unhindered, indulging in a barrage of provocative violations, inflammatory and unhistorical statements, such as those of erdogan, who questions international treaties and greek sovereign rights, who systematically pretends not to listen to the eu, the us and nato. the dangerous imperialist projects in which the syriza-anel government is actively involved can corrupt the peoples, in their struggle against monopolies and capitalism, their real enemies.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ i support the joint motion for a resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey because it is well-founded and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 26 october 2016.
in writing. ‒ turkey is committing continuous and repeated human rights violations and does not apply the rules of international law. the eu, for its part, must use its economic power and put in place all legal means to prevent turkey from continuing this tactic.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the joint motion for a resolution because it is unfounded, it puts europe at risk and it is openly directed against russia, although it is obvious that it is not the one responsible for the current tense situation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation as a whole, as it puts europe at risk and is openly directed against russia, although it is obvious that it is not to blame for the current tense situation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation because it is not complete and well-documented, and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 26 october 2016.
in writing. the european parliament's group of the european people's party votes against the resolution because it does not call for the destruction of nuclear weapons nor is it really in favour of prohibiting their proliferation. it does not even mention the fact that powerful capitalist eu member states have nuclear arsenals and regularly conduct nuclear tests. it conceals that the recent nato summit in warsaw decided to install anti-ballistic systems, i.e. nuclear systems, in eu member states such as romania and poland, deployment of military bases and nato multinational troops in poland and eu member states in the baltic, in the context of competition of the usa, nato, eu with capitalist russia. the resolution also encourages such competition in the field of nuclear weapons, which is based on the conflict of interests of the monopolies on both sides. it legitimizes the presence of ready-to-use nuclear weapons on nato military bases scattered across its members, the eu and elsewhere, such as turkey. the only way to prevent the nuclear holocaust and the bloodshed of peoples caused by imperialist wars is to free them from the barbaric exploitative capitalist system.
in writing. ‒ nuclear energy and by extension nuclear weapons are a tool for man. the nuclear-weapon states should take steps to prevent their use and should try to create the right conditions for all the parties concerned to come to the table for such important talks.
in writing. ‒ the the kke group votes against the resolution because it does not call for the destruction of nuclear weapons nor is it really in favour of prohibiting their proliferation. it does not even mention the fact that powerful capitalist eu member states have nuclear arsenals and regularly conduct nuclear tests. it conceals that the recent nato summit in warsaw decided to install anti-ballistic systems, i.e. nuclear systems, in eu member states such as romania and poland, deployment of military bases and nato multinational troops in poland and eu member states in the baltic, in the context of competition of the usa, nato, eu with capitalist russia. the resolution also encourages such competition in the field of nuclear weapons, which is based on the conflict of interests of the monopolies on either side. it legitimizes the presence of ready-to-use nuclear weapons on nato military bases scattered throughout its members, in the eu and elsewhere, such as turkey. the only way to prevent the nuclear holocaust and the bloodshed of peoples caused by imperialist wars is to free them from the barbaric exploitative capitalist system.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to all the reports on the european voluntary service, i do not think that any initiative on volunteering should have as its primary objective the integration and care of illegal immigrants. i think it is more important to deal first with the problems of young people in europe.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the joint motion for a resolution on european voluntary service and the promotion of volunteering in europe because it is not sufficiently substantiated, and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 27 october 2016.
in writing. the eu not only does not recognise the right to permanent work, but also promotes anything that can replace it (e.g. flexible forms of employment, training programmes). this is confirmed by the joint resolution on the european voluntary service and by the recent commission proposal for the so-called 'european solidarity corps'. the resolution notes that volunteering is 'not accompanied by the pursuit of financial gain' and that it 'helps people to acquire qualifications and skills that can facilitate their access to the labour market', essentially recognising the exploitation of volunteering for free work for the benefit of business groups under the guise of 'solidarity'. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission's proposal for a 'solidarity corps' would mean that participants would be paid in small sums or receive pocket money. with these plans they vainly try to cover the nakedness of social services by outsourcing to private sectors, such as health, welfare, reception and hospitality of refugees, where already the mko are thriving. the people must turn their backs on those who take their bread from their hands and then present themselves as supposed supporters of solidarity. they must intensify their struggle against the system which generates and reproduces poverty and exploitation.
in writing. ‒ although formal volunteering has the essential and long-term objective of smoothly integrating young people into the social system, acquiring strong skills and cultivating solidarity with their fellow human beings, it is unfortunately mainly associated with ngos, which receive huge amounts of funding, exploit volunteers and treat them as cheap labour, concluding that, in addition to volunteering, they should not open channels for illegal immigrants, so-called volunteers, to settle on european territory.
in writing. ‒ the the eu not only does not recognise the right to permanent work, but also promotes anything that can replace it (e.g. flexible forms of employment, training programmes). this is confirmed by the joint resolution on the european voluntary service and by the recent commission proposal for the so-called 'european solidarity corps'. the resolution notes that volunteering is 'not accompanied by the pursuit of financial gain' and that it 'helps people to acquire qualifications and skills that can facilitate their access to the labour market', essentially recognising the exploitation of volunteering for free work for the benefit of business groups under the guise of 'solidarity'. the european commission's proposal for a 'solidarity corps' is provocative in that it says that participants will be paid in small sums or will receive pocket money. with these plans they vainly try to cover the nakedness of social services by outsourcing to private sectors, such as health, welfare, reception and hospitality of refugees, where already the mko are thriving. the people must turn their backs on those who take their bread from their hands and then present themselves as supposed supporters of solidarity. they must intensify their struggle against the system which generates and reproduces poverty and exploitation.
in writing. ‒ we vote against the report. we do not believe that any initiative concerning youth should have as its primary objective the integration and care of illegal immigrants. it is more important for us to deal first with the problems of europe's young people.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the evaluation of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. i do not think that any initiative concerning youth should have as its primary objective the integration and care of illegal immigrants. i think it is more important to deal first with the problems of young people in europe.
in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on the evaluation of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015, because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. one in two young people under 25 is unemployed in greece according to official figures only, while those who are working face flexible forms of employment, with wages of 200-300 euros. the report seeks to perpetuate this harsh reality by ensuring the profitability of business groups, whose main condition is the crushing of wages and rights of old and new workers. the report suggests making even greater use of training programmes such as the 'youth guarantee' for up to six months of jobs, with meagre wages, without pension insurance, but also promoting 'entrepreneurial learning at all levels and in all forms of education'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the social partners. the crocodile tears of 'dropping out' cannot hide the class character of the school that is being thrown out by working class children facing problems of survival, with which their families are also struggling. now the workers and their children must turn their backs on the eu and governments, fighting for an economy and power that is not focused on profit, but on meeting their needs.
in writing. ‒ the youth strategy should focus first on their moral education and secondly on their skills development and vocational training. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of european integration.
in writing. ‒ the one in two young people under 25 is unemployed in greece according to official figures only, while those who are working face flexible forms of employment, with wages of 200-300 euros. the report seeks to perpetuate this harsh reality by ensuring the profitability of business groups whose main condition is the crushing of wages and rights of old and new workers. the report suggests making even greater use of training programmes such as the 'youth guarantee' for up to six months of jobs, with meagre wages, without pension insurance, but also promoting 'entrepreneurial learning at all levels and in all forms of education'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the social partners. the crocodile tears of 'dropping out' cannot hide the class character of the school that is being 'left out' by working class children facing survival problems with which their families are also struggling. now the workers and their children must turn their backs on the eu and governments, fighting for an economy and power that is not focused on profit, but on meeting their needs.
in writing. ‒ the the text has many positive features. sir, we believe that this is contrary to international free trade agreements. it also advocates simplifying cap bureaucracy and strengthening regional identity and tradition in agriculture. it wants to strengthen the role of young people in agricultural production and to strengthen the farming populations throughout europe. the commission will also give priority to remote and mountainous areas as well as to maritime areas. we are opposed in principle only to the existence of the cap, because we believe that agriculture is a matter for the member states to deal with. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on how the cap can improve job creation in rural areas, and i also believe that, in this context, trade agreements such as ttip, ceta and the eu-mercosur free trade agreement represent a serious threat to agricultural products and european labour markets, and would be contrary to policies to encourage local production and support.
in writing. ‒ the common agricultural policy (cap) remains to this day one of the prime means of action that the eu brings to bear in rural areas. however, cap so far favoured more agricultural production that relies on increasingly concentrated and specialised farms. the cap, has unduly neglected the preservation of local production and jobs. this report presents new measures that should be implemented in cap. such as the simplification of cap, measures to support young farmers, better inclusion of women into the agricultural sector, some critics towards ttip, and ceta and measures to stimulate local production. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the report on how the cap can improve job creation in rural areas because it is not complete and well documented, and for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 27 october 2016.
in writing. ‒ the common agricultural policy must protect farmers from international free trade agreements. it should also promote the simplification of bureaucratic procedures and strengthen regional identity and tradition in the agricultural sector. it must promote the participation of young people in agricultural production and give priority to remote, mountainous and coastal areas.
in writing. ‒ the the report attempts to conceal how the cap is strengthening capitalist agricultural enterprises and wiping out poor farmers. the eu's objective is to increase competitiveness and entrepreneurship in the rural sector too, through economic growth. the report is revealing: the vast majority of direct payments goes to the wealthiest farms, with only 13% of beneficiaries receiving 74% of cap direct payments in 2014 despite the inexpensive wishes of the report for 'small, family farms', this is the result of eu and government policy: the uprooting of hundreds of thousands of poor farmers. this is also the case with the report which takes as its starting point that the cap should be 'market-oriented' and argues that its direct aids should be allocated only to persons whose main activity is agriculture. the same logic applies to measures to strengthen the second pillar of the cap (business, agro-tourism, green agriculture, etc.). the only way out for the poor peasants is their struggle against poverty and clearing, it is the way of popular power, for the socialization of capitalist farms, for the satisfaction of the people's needs, food and materials of industry.
the commission madam president, the quantitative easing of the european central bank is the other side of the european union's anti-people policy. it funds the banking and other monopoly groups with ample money to push capitalist development. the reduction in unemployment which you are referring to, mr draghi, means the generalization of flexible working. and the competition within the european union for the european central bank's management and monetary policy mix is not about popular interests, but about business groups trying to strengthen their position at the expense of their competitors, in the context of anemic growth in the eurozone and the european union. the greek government's recklessness to close the second review, to extend a form of debt extension and to join the european central bank's measures presupposes new barbaric anti-people measures, possibly, and a fourth memorandum in greece. but the debt is the capitalists' and not the people's. by its struggle the people, in conflict with the monopolies, the authorities and their imperialist associations, can become the owner of the wealth it produces.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not a party to the maastricht treaty, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the eurozone needs a shift towards sustainable and strong growth, and it needs it now. this means, firstly, more investment and stimulation of demand, particularly in countries with high primary surpluses, such as germany, which have fiscal space and which, with surpluses of 8% are in breach of the european treaties. secondly, completing banking integration at last, and with the creation of the european deposit guarantee scheme and, thirdly, extending the quantitative easing programme beyond march 2017 with the participation of my country, greece, at last. the greek people are keeping their promises, mr dombrovskis and mr draghi. they make big changes with huge sacrifices. but we feel like we've been living the sisyphus myth for years. it is time for you, the commission, the european central bank, together with the eurogroup, to honour your commitments of 5 december on both debt relief and quantitative easing.
the commission madam president, in 2015 the greek people lost their trust in the european union and the hypocrisy of the left was perceived. by voting 'no' in the july 2015 referendum, it made clear that it was fundamentally opposed to the union's economic policies. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. the mandate of the referendum, however, was not implemented by the left-wing tsipras government. the financial pressure of the european central bank and the inhuman attitude of the commission have thus trampled on the dignity of a proud people. the present report confirms the judgment of the greeks. the immediate adoption of a new economic policy and a new growth model, a bold debt haircut by substantially reducing its nominal value, an immediate end to austerity measures and the fight against bank speculation and corruption by political and economic actors are needed. simply put, nationalist governments are needed, and i am particularly pleased that people have shown their intentions with brexit and the election of trump in the us. austria and france will follow, of course.
the commission madam president, once again, you are watching the same play, as mr draghi insists on the forced fiscal adjustment, the so-called anti-social reforms and the merkel austerity which have filled europe with armies of unemployed. and despite, mr draghi, spending over 1.3 trillion euros on quantitative easing, unemployment is still at an all-time high. all you have done is create a huge debt bubble with european taxpayers' money, mainly by buying 250 billion euros of german bonds. in fact, not only are you not giving a penny to greece through quantitative easing, but you forced the bank of greece to participate in 2015 in quantitative easing with 17 billion euros, that is, instead of writing off greek bad debt, you forced greece to lend to its lenders. at the same time you are giving the red loans to the crows and you continue, mr draghi, to be illegally in the troika, despite a decision of expulsion by the court of justice of the european union. so when are you going to leave the troika, mr draghi? when will you stop the conflict of interest within the ecb, since the ecb cannot be both a member of the troika and a lender and a supervisor and a supposedly independent monetary authority? you can't, mr draghi, wear four hats at the same time. understand this: an independent ecb does not mean an uncontrolled ecb.
the commission mr president, the monetary policy pursued by the european central bank up to now has been aimed at rescuing the banks and the euro. in general terms, this objective was achieved. the secondary effect of this success was the destruction of the economies of the countries and the misery of the peoples, especially of the southern states and even more so of greece. the wages and pensions of the greek people have evaporated, their assets are being seized at an unacceptably rapid rate and the few, the few who have the ability to secure some savings are living with the nightmare that this money will also be stolen by the bank in the context of and in the name of a bank rescue policy. the european central bank is not independent in the conduct of monetary policy, but is the guardian and slave of the general policy of impoverishment of the peoples of europe, and the european central bank itself will fail, be ridiculed and humiliated as will mr draghi himself.
the commission mr president, according to the commission's green paper on retail financial services, all consumers should have access to transparent and honest products, while the main objective should be to crack down on tax evasion. the green paper promotes the reduction of market fragmentation, digitalisation and the empowerment of consumers in order to improve the functioning of the single market. consumer confidence in financial services is, of course, quite low, mainly because of the lack of financial literacy on the part of consumers themselves. the increase in the number of crossborder transactions also often creates problems, as it requires information on personal data. for this reason, it is necessary that personal data are collected and that this is always done on the basis of data protection rules, and consumers should have adequate information about financial services.
the commission madam president, ensuring the stability and efficiency of the financial system is of paramount importance for economic and social well-being. the revision of standardised approaches to credit risk may lead to an increase in capital requirements, thereby making it more difficult for banks to grant loans to businesses and households. it is estimated that full implementation of the basel iii framework in 2019 is expected to result in increased capital requirements for european banks in excess of eur 550 billion. given the existing financial instability, the commission should ensure that any possible increase in capital requirements will not have a negative impact on the lending capacity of banks. financial institutions must be able to provide liquidity for growth and job creation, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the european economy.
the commission madam president, defence and security are two important factors for the survival and prosperity of a country. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european defence fund. but the report is going in the wrong direction altogether. the need for the european union's collective defence is met by nato. the union's most important task is to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the international negotiations on the peace process. the european union is not in danger of being attacked by a large and powerful military force, so that it will have to increase its defence capabilities excessively. on the other hand, there is no point in the european union becoming the policeman of the region and invading, as the report says, with forces into the neighbouring states. the security of each country is the responsibility of the national armies, which are equipped and organized, and countries allocate defence expenditure according to their obligations and needs. my country, greece, is receiving threats from turkey and i inform you that it is spending more than 2% of its gdp on defence.
the commission madam president, the european union's ruling circles are still trying to make headway despite brexit. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the results of the elections in the united states, which leave the future of nato itself uncertain, and the concerns of some member states about the continuation of their plans for intervention in the middle east and africa, lead to decisions which have no democratic authority. the euro-army being set up will not protect the greek border from turkey's aggressive actions and will follow the footsteps of nato, which is acting as pontius pilate in turkish threats against greece. the defence sector is a matter for national authorities. the greek people will not accept the ultimatums and gunpowder policies that brussels and berlin are trying to impose.
the commission the european union is not a military alliance, but a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military alliance, a military force, a military force, a military, a military, a military, a military, or any other. the military schengen, as you call it, is a dangerous development, because it is a war preparation by the european union while at the same time strengthening its complementarity with nato. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the greek government has already responded to the criteria of the planned european defence semester and the white paper on defence by doing more. the european union has already been praised by the united states, nato and the european union for its armaments, which exceed 2% of gdp, and it has the base of souda as an upgraded launching pad for new imperialist wars. the peoples must not shed their blood for the interests of the imperialists. they must intensify their struggle against imperialist wars and the interventions of the european union and nato, against their dirty plans.
the commission madam president, 75% of europe's trade with third countries and 40% of intra-european trade is carried by sea, while every year some 400 million people in europe use waterborne means of transport. there are many places in europe where ferry travel would be more sustainable, easier and faster, boosting social and economic life in the area. in addition, the increase in maritime transport could provide vital services to remote communities and regions, thus helping to revitalise tourism potential. the european union must therefore strengthen maritime transport so that the inhabitants of island regions, and in particular the aegean islands, which are constantly affected by the flows of refugees, have continuous access to the mainland. we must therefore take important measures.
the commission madam president, the un 2030 agenda is an ambitious set of 17 goals for sustainable development and poverty eradication. improving aid delivery and development cooperation remain key factors in combating unemployment and strengthening local communities. the policy pursued by the european union in recent years has done little to help its member states achieve these objectives. the merkel austerity and the imposition of memoranda in greece have increased unemployment, created armies of unemployed, increased poverty and social exclusion. in the years of the greek debt crisis, the percentage of households living in absolute poverty in greece doubled in 2015 to over 22%. if the european union really wants to achieve the objectives of the 2030 agenda, it must abandon the policy of austerity, the policy that is detrimental to development, and make a substantial contribution to the cancellation of the public debt in both the countries of the european periphery and the developing countries.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, last week, at a conference in frankfurt, the german finance minister launched a slanderous attack against greece. the commission also found that the greek authorities had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had failed to take into account the fact that the greek authorities had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had failed to take into account the fact that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the commission had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the claim. the surplus has been achieved by the enormous sacrifices of the greek people over the last seven years, which mr schäuble has no right to ignore. equally false is his claim that pensions in greece are still high, when the average new pension is now at around eur 660, i.e. only marginally above the minimum standard of living based on current price levels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, despite the resignation of the syriza-anel government, us president obama did not visit greece out of admiration for its history or sympathy for its people. his intervention on the greek debt calls for tougher anti-people measures. the aim was to intervene in the geopolitical interests of the united states and nato, together with the european union, in the middle east, the mediterranean, the aegean to control the russian presence. they, together with the governments of greece, turkey and cyprus, are promoting the partition of cyprus as a stable base for energy investors in the region. the question of the turkish government's border disputes was not mentioned. it has agreed with the greek government to further its involvement and new military facilities putting the greek people and neighboring peoples at direct risk. trump, obama and clinton: the european union is not a party to the gatt, but a party to the gatt. the people must be concerned and not choose between scylla and charybdis. they must chart their own independent path to overthrow capitalism, which only reserves poverty, unemployment, wars and refugees for the people.
the commission madam president, a few hours ago we heard mr draghi's apology. he avoided answering the key questions we asked him. he avoided answering why he has excluded greece from quantitative easing. he has not said a word of apology to the greek people, whom he has bankrupted as a member of the troika and sent to unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and employment. he also said that there was no ruling by the court of justice of the european union to expel the european central bank from the troika. read again the judgment of the court of justice c 62/2014. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr draghi said nothing about the fact that, at the behest of the european central bank, greek banks are selling greek loans to the crows who are taking their homes. mr draghi also threw the ball into the arena on the question of the greek debt, a debt which is odious and which the greek people must now proceed to write off. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission mr president, with fears of a new round of crisis, embarrassment over brexit and the election of trump, upcoming elections in various countries with growing popular dissent, but stuck in a reactionary direction, the competitions are intensifying globally and in the union. in this climate of contradiction, what is the value of a single economic governance and a european semester? and yet they retain their value. the convergence or divergence, or even the decentralization of forces, some relaxation with reforms proposed by the commission, or austerity, as germany and others insist, are only about financing capital for investment and not about restoring what the peoples have lost. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. they're the ones everyone agrees on. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the people must organize under their own flag and not under the flag of capital to overthrow it. the change of managers only leads to new disappointments.
the commission the famous 'european semester' is a mechanism for overriding the sovereign rights of national parliaments to formulate their own national budgets. it is a tool for imposing merkel's austerity and forcible fiscal adjustment. and when brussels shows that it is trying to be independent of berlin's policy, giving, as it is now, a few crumbs of growth, then schäuble calls them back to order. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the time has come, mr dombrovskis, for greece to proceed with the entry of german compensation in the greek state budget. we are therefore organising an electronic vote to demand that germany's debts to greece be finally entered in the national budget. an electronic vote that will put the greek parliament before its responsibilities and force the greek government to do the obvious, that is, to enter the german reparations right here and now in the greek state budget of 2017 under discussion.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is disintegrating europe by exacerbating social and regional disparities and feeding the populists of the far right. the commission must take more bold steps towards a turn towards economic growth throughout europe, by boosting investment and demand, particularly from the eurozone countries such as germany, which have large budgetary surpluses, by relaxing and amending the stability and growth pact, so that we finally have growth and a reduction in unemployment, particularly in the countries of the european south, which are plagued by huge unemployment, especially among young people. mr dombrovskis, the doctrine of 'austerity-austerity-austerity' is killing growth, fuelling unemployment and reinforcing the far-right agenda for the break-up of europe and for a huge social backwardness. you have a historic duty and responsibility to prevent this, and so do we in the european parliament. so stop letting yourself as a commission be bullied by mr schäuble, who wants to replace the commission in its institutional role by automated mechanisms and technocrats like the esm. we expect strong responses to this bullying.
the commission mr president, in order to ensure the policy of strict budgetary discipline in the member states, the european union is implementing the following instruments: the europe 2020 strategy is decade-long, the multiannual financial framework is six years long, the stability and convergence programmes are three years long, the draft budgetary programmes are annual and the european semester is semi-annual. if it implements one tool on a monthly basis, then no country can avoid the complete abolition of its national economic sovereignty. the european union has failed to foresee the economic crisis, mass illegal immigration, the rise of terrorism and brexit, much less to deal with them effectively. europe does not need systems of economic control by the member states. it needs policies tailored to the needs of citizens. and to speak in military terms, centralized control and centralized command are characteristics of a bad commander. a bad commander's failure is due to him, not the personnel he commands.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the proposal for a directive on access to information for tax authorities to combat money laundering is more relevant than ever. the european union and its member states, after several years in the throes of the economic crisis, are called upon to put an end to the vicious circle of corruption and lack of transparency. having now realised the increased possibilities offered by technological progress, it is reasonable to discuss proposals for increased access by tax authorities to transactions in order to prevent criminal acts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. we must therefore be careful to ensure that these rights are respected, striking the necessary balance between the interests of society as a whole and the protection of personal data and privacy.
the commission madam president, in order to tackle tax evasion and avoidance, the european commission aims to give tax authorities systematic access to information to combat money laundering. the commission's action to combat tax evasion must be more effective. as the panama papers and lux leaks scandals have shown, the number of multinationals making exorbitant profits and evading taxes and hiding their money in tax havens is not decreasing at all. the only solution to the problem of tax evasion is to tax the profits of companies where they are made, so as to stop companies from taking refuge in tax havens and thus damaging the state budget.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. in order to combat this phenomenon, states should take strict and effective measures and at the same time cooperate with the european union in order to avoid both tax exemption and access to tax havens for multinational companies. to this end, the exchange of information relating to tax matters is essential. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of citizens are not infringed. another point to be noted is that governments should not impose excessive taxes, for this encourages tax evasion on the part of citizens and companies alike. this is the case in greece, where the implementation of the memoranda has led to the imposition of unbearable taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is properly controlled and that the european union does not allow its high-ranking officials to cover up such illegal activities, as has been the case so far.
the next item on the agenda is voting time. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes)
the time for voting is over.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the approval of the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol, as i consider that security and the fight against crime are essential conditions for the full achievement of the objectives between the eu and ukraine.
in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the report on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. it is clear that the changes we are facing as a result of the migration issue and the economic crisis are leading to the need for more stringent controls. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think that this report does not cover all the issues adequately. that's why i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not inform each other. the agreement does not effectively promote the risk-based approach or ensure the obligation of data protection by design and by default. that is why i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ on 4 october i voted against the agreement between the europol and the chinese ministry of public security. now again we have a similar agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with ukraine and of course i voted against to this agreement too. it is important that we are consistent in our approach in regards to this kind of void agreements which do not contribute much to the protection of human rights neither in the eu, nor in our partner countries.
in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol, as it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not inform each other. the agreement neither effectively reinforces the risk-based approach nor ensures the obligation of data protection by design and by default.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh. as this request does not concern proceedings relating to his activities in the european parliament, i think we should not stand in the way of justice. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i appeal against the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh. the lifting of immunity should cover only acts falling within the scope of parliamentary duties. in this report the events described as accusations are not about actual crimes but only about malicious prosecutions by political opponents, with the aim of damaging the reputation of the mep and obstructing his work.
in writing. ‒ i appeal against the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh. the lifting of immunity should cover only acts falling within the scope of parliamentary duties. in this report the events described as accusations are not about actual crimes but only about malicious prosecutions by political opponents, with the aim of damaging the reputation of the mep and obstructing his work.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of immunity of jean-françois jalkh, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the waiver of immunity should cover only acts falling within the scope of parliamentary duties. in the report itself, the facts described to substantiate the charges do not relate to actual crimes but only to malicious prosecutions by political opponents, with the aim of damaging the reputation of the mep and obstructing his work.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh. as this request does not concern proceedings relating to his parliamentary activity, i think we should not stand in the way of justice. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i appeal against the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh. the lifting of immunity should cover only acts falling within the scope of parliamentary duties. in this report the events described as accusations are not about actual crimes but only about malicious prosecutions by political opponents, with the aim of damaging the reputation of the mep and obstructing his work.
in writing. ‒ i appeal against the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh. the lifting of immunity should cover only acts falling within the scope of parliamentary duties. in this report the events described as accusations are not about actual crimes but only about malicious prosecutions by political opponents, with the aim of damaging the reputation of the mep and obstructing his work.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of immunity of jean-françois jalkh, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the waiver of immunity should cover only acts falling within the scope of parliamentary duties. in the report itself, the facts described to substantiate the charges do not relate to actual crimes but only to malicious prosecutions by political opponents, with the aim of damaging the reputation of the mep and obstructing his work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, as i consider that it implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the recommendation to amend council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. i think that this is a positive process aimed at rationalizing fishing and commercial practices, with results that are beneficial for the economy and the environment. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - the vote is in favour. a common fisheries policy will protect marine fauna and flora.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fishing activities exploiting these stocks. a common fisheries policy will protect marine fauna and flora.
in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, because it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ a common fisheries policy will protect marine fauna and flora.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to information by tax authorities for the purpose of combating money laundering, because i consider that the automatic and mandatory exchange of information between tax authorities for the purpose of combating money laundering is a very important step.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on access to information for tax authorities to combat money laundering. the european union has become increasingly aware of the importance of combating opacity and illegal economic activities, particularly after the economic crisis shook most of the member states. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the in times of economic crisis, when incomes are shrinking and taxation is continuous, the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, including in relation to money laundering, is crucial. the revelations in the swissleaks, luxleaks, panama papers and bahamas leaks cases, which are isolated manifestations of a global phenomenon, confirm the absolute need for greater tax transparency and much closer coordination and cooperation between jurisdictions.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the access of tax authorities to information to combat money laundering, as in times of economic crisis, when revenues are shrinking and taxation is continuous, the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, including in relation to money laundering, is vital. the revelations in the swissleaks, luxleaks, panama papers and bahamas leaks cases, which are isolated manifestations of a global phenomenon, confirm the absolute need for greater tax transparency and much closer coordination and cooperation between jurisdictions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour to this amendment of anti-money-laundering directive since it states clearly the obligations of tax authorities of all member states to collect and automatically exchange fiscal information about beneficiaries and account holders within three months period.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to information by tax authorities for the purpose of combating money laundering, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 22 november 2016, and because the report is well founded.
in writing. ‒ the money laundering legitimises money from illegal activities which then enters the market distorting healthy competition. the systematic evasion of taxation is thus perpetuated, depriving member states of valuable tax revenues and putting strain on the national budgets. the immediate withdrawal of the 500 euro banknotes in the european union is essential. in my country, greece, we must also immediately introduce compulsory electronic transactions and the use of plastic money over 300 euros. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the in times of economic crisis, when incomes are shrinking and taxation is continuous, the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, including in relation to money laundering, is crucial. the revelations in the swissleaks, luxleaks, panama papers and bahamas leaks cases, which are isolated but not unique manifestations of a global phenomenon, confirm the absolute necessity for greater tax transparency and much closer coordination and cooperation between jurisdictions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european central bank's annual report for 2015 because i believe that the monetary dialogue is important to ensure transparency in monetary policy.
in writing. ‒ the the vote on the annual report of the european central bank (ecb) for 2015 focuses on the activities of this institution in the past year. although no errors or irregularities have been found, we have raised many objections to the structure and procedures of the ecb and therefore do not agree with the way it operates. that is why i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the ecb, as one of the eu's key institutions, should act in the interests of the citizens of the union, their well-being and their dignity. it must not put the protection of the single european currency above people.
in writing. ‒ the ecb, as one of the eu's key institutions, should act in the interests of the citizens of the union, their well-being and their dignity. it must not put the protection of the single european currency above people. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the ecb annual report, reflecting gue/ngl’s and my personal fundamental objection to the monetary policy adopted by the ecb.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the annual report of the european central bank for 2015, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 21 november 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the ecb, as one of the eu's key institutions, must act in the interests of the union's citizens, their well-being and their dignity, and must not put the protection of the single european currency above the protection of the people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the green paper on retail financial services because i believe it is extremely important to promote positive developments in retail financial services markets by creating a competitive environment and maintaining a level playing field for all stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the green paper on retail financial services. although the initial objective of this report was to promote innovative services in the light of the modern era and for the benefit of citizens, there are failures and limitations that lead to the marginalization of citizens who do not have access to new technologies. as the protection of citizens is a priority, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the green paper on retail financial services, because we are opposed to cross-border investment with all the consequences of the migration policy that is required. for our country in particular, the fiscal situation and the exclusion of the public sector from markets create insurmountable obstacles to the issuance of green bonds, which strengthen the power of the supervisory authorities.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the green paper on retail financial services because i am against crossborder investment with all the consequences of the migration policy that it entails. in my country in particular, the fiscal situation and the exclusion of the public sector from markets create insurmountable obstacles to the issuance of green bonds, which strengthen the power of the supervisory authorities.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal is indeed moving in the right direction and shows the important work that has been done so far to achieve a harmonised system of retail financial products and services. however, the problem is still evident and the fragmentation shows that in order for the efficient allocation of funds in the european union to work, differences between member states will have to be overcome, especially now that we are in a process of gradual transition to digital financial services.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, since the green paper represents the interests of multinational companies rather than the interests of the people. although digitalisation brings many benefits, our role is to foresee also the side-effects of this process, e.g. increased unemployment caused by the closure of physical shops, and address them by introducing simple and sound legal framework.
in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on the green paper on retail financial services for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 21 november 2016, and because the report in question is not well-founded.
in writing. ‒ we are against cross-border investment with all the necessary consequences of immigration policy. for our country in particular, the fiscal situation and the exclusion of the public sector from markets create insurmountable obstacles to the issuance of green bonds, which strengthen the power of the supervisory authorities.
the reasons for voting on the paet report are closed. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposal. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the reasoning for the vote on the paet report can be put in writing and it will be recorded in the minutes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european defence union because i believe that the development of the area of the eu's common security and defence policy is an important step towards protecting its citizens and its values and interests, while fully respecting international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the report on the european defence union was the subject of intense negotiations from the outset, as we are called upon to strengthen the union's defence capabilities, while respecting a number of rights of both citizens and member states, while at the same time drawing up a concrete policy for the future of europe. i think that this report is promoting policies which are burdensome for the economy and the member states, while it does not take a position on the desired reduction in armaments programmes. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report as a whole. once again the eu is showing its submission to nato and the usa, faithfully following their orders which are against the interests of the peoples and nations of europe.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the european defence union as a whole. once again the eu is showing its submission to nato and the usa, faithfully following their orders which are against the interests of the peoples and nations of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr paet’s approach as it becomes more and more necessary for europe to articulate a strong position when it comes to defence. we are experiencing very challenging times in a changing political environment. europe should be able to respond to those challenges. however i need to stress the importance of cooperation with nato so as to avoid duplication and to make sure that our resources are used in the most efficient way.
in writing. ‒ i voted against since this report leads europe to re-militarisation, wasting hundreds of millions of eur in the eu’s budget on defence research programme.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the european defence union for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 21 november 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ once again, the eu is demonstrating its allegiance to nato and the us by faithfully following their orders, even when they run counter to the interests of the peoples and nations of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on exploiting the potential of passenger shipping because i believe that this passenger transport is environmentally friendly and provides vital services to tourists travelling to remote coastal areas.
in writing. ‒ the report on exploiting the potential of passenger shipping aims to develop an industry which has not been a priority for citizens and businesses in recent years. despite the positive ideas it contains, the report fails to focus on the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises, creating favourable conditions for stronger enterprises. therefore, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because we need to fully exploit all waterways to help many areas economically, but at the same time we need to have increased safety measures for both people and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on exploiting the potential of passenger shipping, because it is necessary to exploit all waterways to help many regions economically, but at the same time there must be increased safety measures for both people and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the inland waterway passenger transport, including sea ferries, inland waterway ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, by supporting policies relating to safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, as well as quality of service, passenger rights and unimpeded accessibility. while shipping is already one of the most sustainable modes of transport, there is further scope to make ships cleaner and more energy efficient through investment in research and innovative technologies, for example in the field of solar and wind energy, shore-based electricity and alternative fuels, while applying the principle of technological neutrality. this also relates to the availability and use of european union funds, including those from the cohesion fund, the structural and regional funds, the interreg and horizon 2020 programmes, the ten, the ten-t and the esf. i therefore voted in favour of mr taylor's report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on unleashing the potential of waterborne passenger transport since while i do recognize that eu’s inland waterways and sees have potential to alternate land and air communication in the areas where applicable, the report lacks in-depth and balanced analysis on the subject.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the exploitation of the potential of passenger shipping for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 21 november 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ full exploitation of all waterways is needed to help many areas economically, but at the same time there must be increased safety measures for both people and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on making development cooperation more effective, because it identifies a number of issues that could help to promote the agenda for development effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation aims to review the strategy of states in relation to the development programmes they draw up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the report by the committee on development on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation, as we are opposed to a single market for cooperation with third countries. the economic trajectory so far has shown that the lack of transparency by local communities and elected representatives does not ensure the effective taxation of profits where the activity is carried out, resulting in illicit financial flows.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report by the committee on development on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation, as i am opposed to a single market for cooperation with third countries. the economic trajectory so far has shown that the lack of transparency by local communities and elected representatives does not ensure the effective taxation of profits where the activity is carried out, resulting in illicit financial flows.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the world's largest provider of development aid. it has undertaken commitments and set priorities in relation to strategic development objectives, and it is therefore necessary to examine the effectiveness of the practices we have followed in relation to the objectives we have set so far, and, given the current economic constraints, to find ways of continuously assessing the impact of our practices on development, so that we do not retreat as the european union in our international development role, but at the same time use the resources at our disposal more intelligently and better.
in writing. ‒ although the eu is the world’s biggest aid donor, many problems still exist concerning the effectiveness of delivered development aid. i voted in favour since the report urges the eu and its member states to keep the promise about devoting 0.7% of their gni to development aid, empowers civil society organisations in third countries, makes a principle of ownership more achievable and prevents involvement of offshore companies in the project implementation process.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 21 november 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed to a single market for cooperation with third countries. the economic trajectory so far has shown that the lack of transparency by local communities and elected representatives does not ensure the effective taxation of profits where the activity is carried out, resulting in illicit financial flows.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
the commission mr president, the horde of fanatical terrorists that the west has created, armed and continues to support will soon be gone. you feel embarrassed and try by any means to prevent the crushing of the mercenaries who have been bloodletting syria for the last six years. on the battlefield now the future of the syrians is being decided and soon you will have to adapt to new realities. the european parliament has already said that it is not possible to give a definitive answer to the question of the future of the european union, but it is possible to give a definitive answer to the question of the future of the european union. you upgraded the al nusra front from an al qaeda affiliate to a respectable interlocutor because it just changed its name? the european union's media continue to spread propaganda and deliberate disinformation on a daily basis about how bad the syrians and russians are in aleppo and how good the rebels, the rebels or the so-called democratic army are. these plans have fortunately failed and will soon be official. perhaps in the future a new country will be found to destroy the west, but know that the days when you could determine the fate of peoples according to your interests are now irrevocably gone.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied. since, as you may know, the occupation of a populated area such as aleppo is, from a military point of view, difficult and time-consuming and may take a long time, how would you view the proposal that the european union take action to evacuate the eastern side of aleppo from civilians so that they are not used as human shields and there are no victims among the civilian population, and especially children?
the commission madam president, the european union is constantly discussing the situation in syria and most agree that the situation is critical. in practice, however, it is other powers that are fighting and giving a way out of a war which, as we know, was started with the blessing of some european powers. neither daesh nor any other fundamentalist group must prevail in any way, at any point in iraq or syria. at the same time, we must also tackle the turkish expansionist factor which, under the pretext of fighting terrorism, is trying to break the united front which the kurds have created against daesh. the european union must therefore keep turkey out of these areas and call on it to respect international law and its commitments to find a viable solution in syria, and to deal with the refugee flows that are expected to increase again. the european union, the united states and russia must now work together to combat islamism in the wider region.
the commission madam president, after the election of trump in the us, the revision of the strategic approach of nato, the revelation of erdogan's real intentions in turkey and russia's support for the official government of syria, i hope that finally the situation in the region will be resolved. it is time for europe to change its approach. stop supporting the so-called moderate opposition in syria, which is actually slaughtering, looting, raping, smuggling oil with turkey, promoting radical islamism and ethnically killing syrians, yazidis, peshmerga and christians. political defenders of human rights and the rule of law are typically feigning and deafening to the cries of anguish and the death throes of innocent men, women and children in syria. as europeans we must join forces with those fighting the islamic isis and stop the danger of the spread of the enemies of civilization and christianity.
the commission the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft resolution on the situation in turkey. in fact, the recent coup d'état of july 15th gave president erdogan the alibi to turn the country's politics into a dictatorship. the turkish president has consistently accused the european union of not accepting his country as a full member for fifty years. it is not, of course, mentioned that it has made no effort to meet all the necessary conditions. it also threatens to flood the european union with millions of illegal immigrants, it threatens greece with war, it has troops occupying 37% of the territory of cyprus, it has invaded syria and it is also pursuing by medieval methods any political opponent, above whom the threat of the death penalty hangs. it also applies genocidal principles and methods to the kurds living in the eastern part of turkey. his most recent achievement is that, in an interview with nato representatives, he threatened that turkey would join the shanghai pact, a military alliance controlled by russia and china. as you can see, such a country has no place in the european union. the accession procedures for turkey must be suspended immediately. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i am very grateful to you for pointing this out, mr president. of course, i agree with all your positions. but the way in which turkey is being treated by the european union also shows the extent of the hypocrisy of some who are here, who say what they say and have the audacity to appear as democrats while tolerating the violation of democracy in european union countries, such as my country, greece, as mr voigt has pointed out. i am absolutely in agreement with you, and i repeat that i consider it a disgrace and a disgrace the way in which mr hatzigeorgiou and all the others have behaved here in parliament today.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the blue card. i would like to know what you think of the redemptive aspirations of sultan erdogan against greece, who has now opened a debate to question the treaty of lausanne, while at the same time the turkish consulate in komotini is taking anti-greek actions in an attempt to create an issue of secession of thrace from greece and accession to turkey.
s & d) and the madam president, we are following with great concern president erdoğan's attack on the rule of law and civil liberties. i would therefore expect a european counter-attack of support for the persecuted turkish society. i would hope that we would finally open the chapters on the rule of law and fundamental rights and declare that this is the european way and it is non-negotiable, a door that does not close, that freedoms and rights are the prerequisites for developing closer relations, without limits, those that will multiply 140 billion in trade and make it much more. but what do turkish citizens see? they see us abandoning them, abandoning or freezing - apart from them - the most important tool of cooperation and dialogue with the pro-european section of turkish society, they see us offering erdoğan the alibi to plunge his people into a blind anti-europeanism and win the conservative majority. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, and we are convinced that the european union must be able to play a more active role in the development of the region, and that the european union must be able to play a more active role in the development of the region. after libya, egypt, syria and ukraine, it is time to fail in turkey.
s & d) and the there are currently 2300 judges and prosecutors, 150 journalists, over 31000 citizens and 10 members of the turkish parliament, including mr demirtas, in turkish prisons. at the same time, 129000 civil servants are either dismissed or on leave. these elements are of pharaonic proportions. mr erdoğan is responding to the coup attempt against the turkish republic with another coup against the rule of law and human rights. he's blackmailing us with the refugee deal without considering the drama. it is a question of borders which have been closed for a hundred years by the treaty of lausanne. all of this points to a leader who serves not the public interest of his people but the plan of his personal survival and his personal hegemony. he wants us to keep a guilty silence. for this reason, our response today must be loud and clear: if it continues on this path, it will not be considered a reliable partner, the accession negotiations will be frozen and the pre-accession financial assistance to turkey will be stopped.
the commission the time has come to put an end to the long mockery of turkey's accession process and to put an end to turkey's accession negotiations with the european union. the european union has been tolerating for more than ten years the continuing violations of international law by turkey and the neo-ottoman aspirations of the erdoğan government. the european union is watching with bated breath the islamization of world heritage sites such as hagia sophia, turkey's aggressive policy in syria and iraq and turkey's cooperation with isis. the european union is passively watching the violations of greek sovereign rights in the aegean and thrace and, of course, forgetting the continuing occupation of 37% of cyprus by turkish troops. in the field of the refugee problem, turkey is sending thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants to the aegean islands, where the inhabitants can no longer stand it. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator in the world of the world of the west.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. to what he says and to what you say about mass persecutions, arrests and imprisonments, i would add the threats of turkey to its neighbours, the daily violations of the air and sea borders of the european union and the questioning of the status quo of the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it took the supposed reinstatement of the death penalty for some to whisper about parole. but the reality is harsh. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union, which is responsible for the causes of the refugee crisis, refuses to respond to the crisis with a comprehensive and effective plan. as long as this is the case, turkey will continue with the same policy. you will issue statements and we will issue resolutions, knowing that turkey is blackmailing us with two and a half million refugees. i repeat, i hope you understand that turkey will not become a member of the european union - not because we do not want it, but, first and foremost, because it does not want it.
the commission madam president, madam mogherini, what is happening in turkey is unacceptable and at the same time very worrying. mr weber spoke of 36 000 prisoners, 38 imprisoned members of parliament, 70 media outlets whose operations have been banned. the question is what we do. the european perspective of turkey is linked to our major strategic choice to strengthen democratization. are we to give up this purpose? are we going to admit we failed? i believe that the first step is to not give them a single euro - not a single euro of development aid - and i am not talking about funds for refugees. we don't need to give up the only active lever of pressure on erdoğan. we must not allow erdoğan to drive turkey into chaos and greece into chaos by letting refugees into the union and creating an uncontrollable situation.
the commission madam president, the israeli government, in pursuing a new form of apartheid policy against the palestinians, is unhinderedly multiplying the settlements in the palestinian territories. it deprives thousands of palestinians of their ancestral land, their crops, even their water, every means of their survival. he's putting up fences and walls everywhere. he imprisons without trial and murders. for years now it has been plotting to uproot the remaining palestinians from their lands in the west bank and strangling gaza. how can a state, after all, violate the most fundamental rights of a people unhindered for decades? the european union and its member states, as well as the greek government, have been betrayed by trade and military agreements which have given them the role of imperialist policeman in the crucial middle east energy and pipeline region. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the response of the peoples must be: solidarity with the palestinian people for an independent viable palestinian state within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital, the demolition of settlements and the release of prisoners. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission mr president, the interest in the european union's common security and defence policy has been revitalised by the damage to the fabric of euro-atlanticism caused by brexit and the results of the us elections. the objectives of this policy are to serve the interventionist activities of certain member states of the union in the middle east and africa. on the other hand, i do not see any common security and defence policy for the european union in the face of turkey, which daily violates greek sovereign rights in the aegean and illegally occupies 37% of the territory of cyprus. nor do we see any solidarity with greece when albania raises the issue of samuria and threatens the property of the recognized greek ethnic minority in northern epirus, as i have informed you in a letter i sent to you, mrs mogherini. the common security and defence policy is therefore a fig leaf. the greek people will not consent to any ploy to serve the intrusive interests of the powerful in europe.
the commission mr president, mr paşcu is selective in his recollection. i would point out to the rapporteur that inaccuracies should not be mentioned in a report from the european parliament. he owes it as a member of the european parliament and as a former romanian minister of defence. the report states that for the first time since the second world war, european borders have been changed by force, namely in ukraine, and underlines the international impact of military occupation. i would therefore like to remind him of the illegal invasion by turkey and the military occupation and colonization of 37% of the territory of cyprus. a military occupation that continues despite the condemnation of all international organizations. the council has also been informed of the outcome of the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. or is he missing it because germany and america are involved? the report by mr glinne, which i am sure will be of great interest to the house, is a report which is a good one, but it is not a report which is good enough for the commission.
the commission the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the international negotiations, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the negotiations. on the one hand, mrs mogherini told us that we are not a defence organisation; but on the other hand, we are seeking to achieve defensive capabilities. we want to increase the capabilities of the defense industry with research and production of powerful weapons systems. but we do not answer the question against what powerful enemy these means will be used. the position we take after britain's exit from the european union, brexit and the election of trump in the united states is also contradictory and confusing. trump has declared that he will try and succeed in working with russia. this will reduce both tensions and, possibly, the risk of a threat. so there's a contradiction here too. the only real danger facing the european union is that posed by international terrorism and the capabilities it can deploy, such as cyber attacks. this danger can be countered by cooperation between the security and defence authorities of the countries of the european union.
the commission madam president, the report 'eu communication strategy to counter propaganda against it by third parties', a delirium of the most vulgar anti-communism, literally a gift to the criminal nazis, is a monument and a proof of the reactionary nature of the union and the european parliament, which, by distorting history, equates fascism with communism. it is not aimed at the islamic state, which has been supported by the united states, nato and the european union. under the pretext of competition with capitalist russia, you are recalling something you claim to have won once and for all, but which you still fear - and rightly so - the specter of communism, of work, of education, of health, of social rights for all. by distorting the concept of 'radicalization', you propose networks of donors, targeting them as agents and putting up against the wall millions of unemployed and poor people who challenge the european union, bourgeois governments and their system. you are calling for the restriction of democratic rights and freedoms by criminalizing thought, speech and political action. you poison the youth in schools, in culture, with media funded and controlled by the union. be assured: whatever you do, the future of humanity is not the rot of your system, but its overthrow.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. its principles and objectives are still valid today. but in this age of the world's wide access to information, we must be especially careful in dealing with any enemy propaganda. the european union must tell its people the truth. it is not possible to put the propaganda of russia and that of isis on the same level and expect that to be accepted by the world. it is not possible to target groups or political parties in different countries and expect not to be accused of being anti-democratic. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
ecr), in writing. according to studies, 70 million europeans lack adequate reading and writing skills and even more have poor numeracy and digital skills. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. according to the european commission, 56% of people aged 16 to 74 in greece do not even have basic digital skills, compared to 41% in the european union. although 39.4% of greeks aged 30-34 have completed tertiary education, only 47.4% of graduates are employed, in contrast to the european average of almost double that figure (80.5%). the greek labour market offers few opportunities to highly qualified young people, forcing them to become self-employed or emigrate. according to the bank of greece, greece is the fourth largest country in the european union in terms of the mass of immigrants in proportion to its labour force. in 2013 alone, more than 2% of the country's total workforce left to work abroad. the young are our main guarantors for the future of the country. we must abolish the memorials of misery that force our children to uproot themselves in search of a supposedly better life.
the commission mr president, europe has made important progress in reducing emissions of air pollutants and in protecting the environment in general. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, however, environmental pollution is a global problem which cannot be solved by the european union alone, and emissions and the effort to reduce them have implications which extend beyond the ecological approach and concern the economy, corporate competition and the context in which companies operate. for example, with free trade agreements, companies that remain in the union, where there are many and correct restrictions on emissions, will find themselves facing companies based in china or southeast asia or even the us, where regulations are much looser and, consequently, production costs are lower. the result is that companies are essentially forced to migrate, causing social and economic problems in the union, and overall greater pollution of the environment. we therefore conclude that emission limitations must be accompanied by a policy of economic protectionism, making imports from countries which do not meet the exact same legal requirements on emissions more expensive. unfortunately, free trade agreements are moving in the opposite direction. finally, the union must review its relations with third countries and make environmental protection an important factor and a prerequisite for the continuation of these relations.
the commission mr president, the european union's action to reduce air pollution is important. but, mr cañete, i will refer you again to the problem in greece, namely the problem of the ethyl haze which has developed in recent years. the problem has arisen because the greek people, who have been impoverished by the memoranda, are using unsuitable materials for heating in order to keep warm. and why does he do that? because the memorandum has increased the rate of excise duty on heating oil, as well as vat on heating oil, electricity and natural gas. the result is an increase in particulate matter and a deterioration in public health. as mr moscovici admitted in answer to my question, 11 000 premature deaths a year are due to this cause. i therefore asked for a reduction in the excise duty on heating oil. the answer of mr moscovici was: 'this cannot be done because greece must fulfil its objectives under the memorandum'. finally, should there be protection of the public health of greek citizens or should huge amounts of tax money be raised to pay for primary surpluses and creditors? answer us on that, mr cañete.
the commission madam president, climate change is an undeniable threat to the environment and to man. the world health organization estimates that 12.5 million deaths annually are linked to environmental pollution, with 6.5 million of these related to air pollution from domestic and outdoor sources. also, about half of all child deaths from pneumonia are due to indoor air pollution. more integrated policies are needed. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the community, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take action to combat this problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is estimated that between 2008 and 2013, there were 166 million climate refugees, and that number is growing. finally, mr cañete, i would like to hear your answer to the question i asked earlier on the ethyl haze in greece and the need to reduce the excise duty on heating oil.
the commission madam president, the marrakesh meeting of the 22nd conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change marked the transition from the old negotiating phase to the new phase which focuses on implementation, although this does not yet mean anything tangible. the transition is a challenge, and the paris agreement is a challenge because of the nature of the differentiation between developed and developing countries. further decisions are required on a wide range of issues, including mitigation, adaptation, financing, transparency, procedures, market mechanisms, implementation and compliance. president-elect trump has committed to reviewing, even scrapping, the paris agreement. the new agreement may be a golden opportunity to review the policy areas of the areas covered by the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the 2018 calendar of parliament sessions because, although it adequately and fully promotes the legislative and other parliamentary activities of the european parliament, it operates exclusively on the basis of the religious holidays of the catholic church and does not take into account the religious holidays of the orthodox churches, as determined in particular by the ecumenical patriarchate of constantinople, although a significant number of meps and officials of the ep are orthodox christians and, therefore, discriminated in this respect in the exercise of their religious beliefs, in particular in relation to easter.
in writing. ‒ it is standard parliamentary practice.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which takes the view that there is no legal certainty as to whether the ceta agreement is compatible with european law and considers it necessary to seek the opinion of the european court of justice on the compatibility of the proposed agreement with the treaties. the consequences of the ratification of ceta, which is being voted on in the european parliament in a hurried and opaque manner, will have a huge impact on labour relations, the rural economy, the environment, public health and public services as a whole in all the member states of the european union, and especially in the economically weaker ones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the agreements. social and environmental standards, especially in times of crisis, should be substantially strengthened and not be the subject of transatlantic negotiations to reduce them in favour of trade by multinational companies. the fight against ceta and ttip and the forces behind them must be fought by all means.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the resolution requesting the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada and the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the proposed eu-canada economic/trade agreement is not compatible with the treaties, particularly in the parts concerning investment protection and investor-state dispute settlement. the deal has to go down.
in writing. ‒ the proposed eu-canada economic/trade agreement is not compatible with the treaties, particularly in the parts concerning investment protection and investor-state dispute settlement. i therefore vote against the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada and the european union.
in writing. ‒ the international trade has been shown to accelerate growth potential and the benefits of competition, and for this reason an outward-looking and open economic policy is part of any development policy for the member states of the european union. however, international trade without rules ceases to be trade. there must be secure regulations, which should be implemented either legally or within commonly accepted institutional frameworks. ceta demonstrates that the procedure used by the european union to conclude international trade agreements needs to be modified.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution requesting the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada and the european union, because it is complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the proposed eu-canada economic/trade agreement is not compatible with the treaties, particularly in the parts concerning investment protection and investor-state dispute settlement. the deal has to go down.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution on referral of the anti-people ceta to the court of justice of the european union attempts to exonerate the european union. this is the well-known bankruptcy propaganda which presents the european union, the imperialist alliance of monopolies, as a popular union which has allegedly 'defected' from its values because of the dominance of 'neoliberal' ideas in it. at the same time, it serves the manipulation of the people by political forces such as syriza, whose government has broadly displayed its signature to ceta, while meps are playing its warriors. now they want to put the people in a corner, waiting for the decision of the european court, as ceta will be implemented without hindrance. the court of justice is an institution of the european union and as such is set up to serve the interests of capital. ceta is 'compliant' with the european treaties and the 'values' of the european union, summarised in the four freedoms of capital, to maximise its profitability, an objective served by the eu-canada trade agreement. the fate of ceta, like that of ttip, the whole of the anti-people policy of the european union and governments, will be decided in the streets by popular mobilization. it will depend on the ability of the workers' and people's movement to direct its struggle against the real opponents, the monopolies, the authorities and their associations, opening the way for their own economy and power.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, because this directive is an important step towards tackling various health and environmental problems caused by air pollution.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants and the amendment of directive 2003/35/ec. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's why i voted no.
in writing. ‒ the air quality is a major cross-border health and environmental issue, which has a huge impact on all eu citizens and requires immediate action. all member states must fulfil their obligations and provide for measures to identify the problem in good time so that corrective measures can be taken. we therefore support the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
in writing. ‒ the air quality is a major cross-border health and environmental issue, which has a huge impact on all eu citizens and requires immediate action. all member states must fulfil their obligations and provide for measures to identify the problem in good time so that corrective measures can be taken. i therefore support the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
in writing. ‒ the while neglected by politicians for many years, air pollution has gained prominence on the political agenda as a major public health issue. poor air quality causes premature deaths, sickness absences from work, significant health care costs, lost productivity, lost crop yields and damage to buildings. in europe, the total external health-related costs to society due to air pollution are estimated at between eur 330-940 billion per year. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities, including the provision of services, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of services, including the provision of services, such as the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, the provision of services, etc. a typical example of such action would be the establishment of low emission zones, a road toll system to reduce diesel emissions in urban areas most affected by nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against since in comparison to initial draft now we have much weaker text on the table than it was before unsuccessful negotiations with council.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 23 november 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the air quality is a major cross-border health and environmental issue, which has a huge impact on all citizens of the european union and requires immediate action. all member states must fulfil their obligations and provide for measures to identify the problem in good time so that corrective measures can be taken.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the finalisation of basel iii because it deals with issues which will affect the relevant banking legislation in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the motion for a resolution on the finalisation of the 'kingdom iii' framework aimed at strengthening and protecting the financial system in europe. although the purpose of this framework could be to benefit the smaller european banks in particular, i believe that once again the rational regulation of the banking environment is not being achieved, which in the recent past was one of the reasons for the economic crisis that has hit the euro area. i therefore decided to vote against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the a well-capitalised banking system is a prerequisite for maintaining financial stability and should support economic growth. in the context of tackling credit and operational risk, huge sums have been spent on bank bailouts, which are being asked to pay by the citizens of the eu member states. in particular, in the case of greece, the bailout of banks, the payment of huge dividends to shareholders and the recapitalisation of financial institutions translated into the signing of memoranda.
in writing. ‒ the a well-capitalised banking system is a prerequisite for maintaining financial stability and should support economic growth. in the context of tackling credit and operational risk, huge sums have been spent on bank bailouts, which are being asked to pay by the citizens of the eu member states. in particular, in the case of greece, the bailout of banks, the payment of huge dividends to shareholders and the recapitalisation of financial institutions translated into the signing of memoranda. for these reasons, i am voting against the definitive adoption of basle iii.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken important legislative steps to strengthen the institutional framework for financial markets and the banking sector, and the european union has always played a productive role in basel. however, the success of the basel regime is through a balanced approach to the diversity of banking systems worldwide, most notably the different approach to credit risk in europe and the us, where the us regularization of the framework is excessive and leaves open market risk, in contrast to europe which is much more wary of market risk and more flexible on credit risk. the internal credit risk measurement models of banks are a tool that helps and does not suspend regulatory objectives, so we must include it in our assessments of the framework that the kingdom is coming to define.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the finalisation of 'kingdom iii' for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 21 november 2016, and because the motion for a resolution in question is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the a well-capitalised banking system is a prerequisite for maintaining financial stability and should support economic growth. in the context of the credit and operational risk response, huge sums were spent to rescue the banks, which are being asked to pay by the citizens of the member states of the european union. in particular, in the case of greece, the bailout of banks, the payment of huge dividends to shareholders and the recapitalisation of financial institutions translated into the signing of memoranda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (in line with the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common security and defence policy) because i believe that the development of the eu's common security and defence policy is an important step towards protecting its citizens, as well as its values and interests, while fully respecting international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against the own-initiative report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy of the european union because it is drawn up in conjunction with those voices in europe which are calling for more militarization and repression. i am not in favour of the report which calls for an increase in military spending by member states to achieve the objectives set by the imperialist nato alliance. i am opposed to the military mechanisms of the european union, athena and eu battlegroups, which are european mechanisms of repression and policy enforcement that have the ability to intervene in an independent country. we are fighting for a europe of peace and solidarity. for a europe which will be a factor of stability in the wider region and not a factor of destabilisation, economic imperialism and military interventions.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy is an attempt to intensify the european union's security mechanisms. although we are in a period of turmoil and we must intensify our efforts to safeguard the security of european citizens, this report focuses on conservative practices and objectives, without ensuring democratic and sound control procedures, while at the same time promoting closer cooperation with nato, facts which are contrary to us. that is why i have decided to vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report, as a whole, is negative for the interests of the eu states. it serves the interests of the united states and nato.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. i do not agree with many of the amendments on the european union's position on security and defence and for that reason i cannot support the implementation of the common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ over the last years we have been facing a number of challenges. the crises in multiple areas of the world, terrorism, radicalisation, are only some of the problems that europe needs to address. dr pascu’s approach is moving in the right direction. a thorough and substantial revision of the csdp is needed in order to enable the eu and its member states to contribute in a decisive way to the security of the union, to the management of international crises and to asserting the eu’s strategic autonomy, recalling that no country can face the current security challenges on its own.
in writing. ‒ i voted against since we have always advocated not only civilian power europe but also an independent and sovereign europe. in contrast to our vision, the present report is full of controversies since, while developing the idea of an autonomous european defence policy, it advocates deepening our ties with nato even further at the same time.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (in line with the annual report of the council to the european parliament on the common security and defence policy), for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 22 november 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the implementation of the csdp will not be able to effectively address existing and future threats. in addition, the majority of member states are unable to meet the obligations imposed on them and resulting from them.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the communication strategy of the european union to counter propaganda against it by third parties. although the safeguarding of europe's interests and rights is a normal and legitimate priority, i believe that this report is focused exclusively on creating an impression against third countries, without promoting any sound pro-european ideas. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ negative the report equates russian propaganda with that of isis, thus being a text that is out of touch with reality. it does not serve the eu's need to counter any anti-propaganda.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the eu's communication strategy to counter propaganda against it by third parties. i think that the report is moving against peoples and nations, purely in favour of the united states, while the interests of the banks prevail.
in writing. ‒ i voted against since the report is highly biased and misleading as far as it concerns to the sources of anti-eu propaganda. instead of truly working to address the real threats coming from daesh, this report was drafted to finance anti-russian propaganda from the eu budget. here i believe we have a contradiction in terms since ‘independent media’ which will be in charge of counter-propaganda is going to be financed by the eu, therefore not leaving much options for the latter to be truly independent.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the eu's communication strategy to counter propaganda against it by third parties, as it is not complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ the european union's communication strategy to counter propaganda against it by third parties is moving in the wrong direction. the logic of 'inventing enemies' and scapegoats must not prevail to justify the absence of good governance policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on sign language and professional sign language interpreters because i believe that access to high quality services for people with disabilities needs to be improved.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on sign language and professional interpreters is a positive initiative which works for the benefit of people with disabilities and a professional sector which provides important services to european society, strengthening their position and giving them additional opportunities. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ deaf, blind and hard of hearing citizens should have access to the same information and communication with their fellow citizens through sign language interpretation, subtitling, speech recognition and/or alternative forms of communication, including oral method interpreters.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the motions for resolutions as a whole, as deaf, blind and hard of hearing citizens must have access to the same information and the same communication with their fellow citizens through sign language interpretation, subtitling, speech recognition and/or alternative forms of communication, including interpreters.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on sign language and professional sign language interpreters because it is comprehensive and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ deaf, blind and hard of hearing citizens should have access to the same information and communication with their fellow citizens through sign language interpretation, subtitling, speech recognition and/or alternative forms of communication, including interpreters.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the objection to the renewal of the approval of the active substance bentazone is a reasonable proposal to review the data which led to the approval of this substance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we reject the motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to commission implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011, because the information submitted to that committee must be of a confirmatory nature as regards the effects on human health, animal health, groundwater or any unacceptable impact on the environment.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to commission implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011, as the information submitted to that committee must be of a confirmatory nature as regards effects on human health, animal health, groundwater or any unacceptable impact on the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour to prohibit the renewal of bentazone authorisation since there is not enough evidence to conclude that its use will not harm human and animal health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution by which the european parliament calls on the commission to withdraw the above implementing regulation.
in writing. ‒ the information submitted to the committee must be of a confirmatory nature as regards the effects on human health, animal health, groundwater or any unacceptable impact on the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, what is the most widespread crime in the world? violence against women. one in three women is a victim of violence. i'm one of them because i exposed unpaid labor, because i was a woman, an immigrant, a unionist. can incidents of violence like this against me be prevented? of course i did. we therefore support the istanbul convention, because it is the first binding international legal instrument against violence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is it enough to ratify the contract, as we rightly ask? of course you didn't. it is necessary to change the culture and it is necessary to educate from an early age in the mutual respect between the sexes, so that men learn that the extra power given to them by nature is not to use violence against women.
the commission madam president, first of all, i would like to point out the inferiority complex and historical ignorance that distinguishes all those in this room who have been referred to istanbul by the name istanbul. the istanbul convention therefore recognises violence against women as a violation of human rights, which is beyond dispute. in addition to information and awareness-raising at national and union level, measures are needed to prevent violence, protect victims and prosecute perpetrators. many member states have ratified the convention, including greece, but have been characteristically late in transposing it into national law. i do not want to believe that the main reason given by the member states for not ratifying the convention is the high cost of implementing it, because, on the one hand, if violence were to be reduced, there would be a corresponding reduction in the funds needed by seven billion euros, and, on the other hand, because human suffering is not measured in terms of money. as the apostle paul once said, the love of money is the root of all evil.
the commission mr president, women and young girls are often exposed to serious forms of violence, such as domestic violence, sexual harassment, rape and genital mutilation, which constitute serious human rights violations and a major obstacle to the achievement of equality between men and women. the incidents described are unacceptable. one in three women in the european union has experienced physical or sexual violence or both, while only around 30% of victims report incidents to the police. at the same time, one in four women choose not to report their sexual violence because of shame, and one in five do not want anyone to know. the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention will therefore contribute to the union's wider objectives of gender equality, protection of women against all forms of violence and will contribute to efforts to prosecute perpetrators, to eliminate violence against women and to eliminate domestic violence.
in writing. violence against women and gender-based violence are unfortunately still widespread in the european union. recent studies show that one third of all women in europe have experienced physical or sexual violence at least once in their adult lives, while around 20% of young women have been sexually harassed online. the fight against and elimination of all forms of violence against women, the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination are fundamental rights enshrined in the european treaties. what remains is to root these rights deeply in the foundations of our societies and to put them into practice and everyday life, changing anachronistic attitudes and perceptions. the istanbul convention is an important legal text that covers the issue of violence against women at various levels, setting out specific commitments and objectives, such as prevention, combating discrimination, criminal sanctions to address impunity, and protection and support for victims. the eu's accession to the convention will ensure a coherent european legislative framework to prevent and combat violence, but above all it will set an example for ratification of the convention by all european member states.
the commission mr president, jordan is the country directly affected by the crisis in syria and iraq because of its geographical location. the conflict in the region is hampering the distribution of jordanian products to its historical markets. in addition, the decline in tourism and foreign investment, the blockade of trade routes and the recurrent interruptions in the supply of natural gas from egypt are inhibiting the country's development and are weighing on its economy. in addition, the syrian refugees in jordan are estimated at 1.4 million, a figure corresponding to 20% of the country's population. the annual cost of caring for them is $3 billion, with just one third of it covered by grants from the international community. in turkey, with far fewer problems than refugees, literally billions of euros are being given away. the 350 million proposed in the report as the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan is simply a travesty. i propose that the amount be tripled by deducting corresponding amounts from the funds allocated to turkey.
the commission mr president, jordan and lebanon are hosting the largest number of refugees in the world. in 2014, jordan's population was 6.8 million and now it's up to 9.5 million, because we now have 2.7 million refugees, who make up 40 percent of the population. this means that these people have settled in cities and that there is a lot of pressure on public services and education. at the same time, jordan's debt is soaring. we have therefore an obligation as the european union to support both jordan and lebanon, as i have said many times in this chamber. so instead of giving our money to turkey, which is not fulfilling its obligations, we should support jordan. at the same time, the european union must also support the aegean islands which have been flooded by thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants. on samos, on chios and on the other islands, the inhabitants, in mass gatherings, send a message that is a cry of anguish. you should listen to the aegean people.
the commission mr president, value added tax (vat) is an important source of revenue for each member state and at the same time makes a significant contribution to the increase in revenue of the european union. this is why the european union is advocating the creation of a common vat system, under the pretext that goods and services will be taxed in the country where they are supplied. that sounds like a good idea. the tax system in each country is different, however, and it is on this that the development of the country's economy depends. the leveling of everyone into a common vat tax system will therefore create economic disruption and loss of revenue. the real purpose of this proposal is to deprive the states of the ability to manage their own economies and to satisfy their own needs and aspirations, and to cede this right to the european union. the consequences of this policy have been seen in greece, where the troika has destroyed the country's economy and has imposed a 24% value added tax on the final consumer... (the president interrupts the rapporteur)
the commission mr katainen, firstly, according to the 2017 budget of greece, greek citizens will be required to pay eur 20.3 billion in direct taxes and eur 26.2 billion in indirect taxes. most of that money will go to the vat. secondly, there has been an increase in vat from 23 to 24% in the aegean islands. this means that all the aegean islands have now been dissolved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thirdly, increased vat means that businesses are leaving greece for bulgaria and cyprus. but above all it means that the impoverished greek people are now paying too much for food, too much for electric heating, too much for heating oil. this situation cannot continue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission mr president, the developments in the pension system, together with the union's green paper and the legislation of governments, show that the occupational funds, which you are constantly supporting, the tax breaks for employers and so on, are a method of demolishing social security, which is being developed in all the member states. the first condition is the abolition of subsidiary insurance, the limitation of the main one to the level of the poorhouse, as is the case in greece with the third left-wing memorandum of the syriza-anel government. it's a form of rewarding private insurance that, if you can afford it, you take out -- excluding, of course, millions of unemployed, unpaid, low-wage, flexible workers -- without ever knowing if or how much you're going to get. the reserves are being played by the crows of private insurance on the stock exchanges, boosting businesses, while billions have been lost everywhere or pensions are being cut as in greece. the social security system will not be closed, as the greek government and others claim, as long as employers and the state seek new exemptions for the sake of capitalist competitiveness. there is a way for the workers: to organize and fight for exclusively public, universal insurance based on their modern needs.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have already mentioned vat, mr katainen. now i'll tell you the figures on pensions, a policy that started in 2010 until now. today, six out of ten pensioners receive less than 650 euros, while 80% of pensioners in greece receive less than 750 euros. the insurance system has been dismantled, because under the famous psi the damage to the insurance funds amounts to 12.5 billion euros. is there an answer to that question? indeed, the insurance system can be recapitalised, as there is eur 19,5 billion of the third loan package received by greece that has not been used and eur 12,5 or even 14 billion could be allocated to recapitalising the insurance funds that have suffered losses. recapitalization for the banks has been done. it could be for the insurance system.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, the illegal trade in so-called wild, that is, in fact, non-human animal species, is a heinous crime against biodiversity. the organised wildlife trafficking, worth €20 billion a year, is contributing to the further desertification of our planet and must therefore be tackled in the strictest way. cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination needs to be strengthened. we are called upon to support a global wildlife effort to ensure the survival of important species through the enforcement of more effective wildlife protection measures. the european union action plan to combat wildlife trafficking is just one step in the right direction . but more generally, humanity must realize that it is part of nature and not its master and behave accordingly.
the commission mr president, the european commission has adopted, since february 2016, an action plan to combat illegal wildlife trade. trade that has become one of the most lucrative criminal activities in the world. the illegal trade in wildlife species has increased dramatically in recent years, negatively affecting biodiversity and natural resources, with estimated revenues of between eur 8 and 20 billion per year. at the same time, the illegal wildlife trade poses a threat to the development of local communities where wildlife resources are now being depleted, while demand for wildlife products remains high. the union wildlife trade action plan should therefore contribute to preventing and combating illegal trade and reducing the supply and demand of illegal species, as well as to strengthening the implementation of existing rules to combat organised crime.
the commission mr president, transport is a vital part of economic and social life. unfortunately, greece also seems to be lagging far behind the other member states in this area, as transport operators in greece waste valuable time because of congestion on the roads, which leads to non-compliance with the mandatory rules on working hours and driving and resting time for drivers. in addition, the transport companies are also affected by the measures taken under the memorandum, commissioner, mrs bulc, and are in a bad financial situation. the european union's cold war conflict with russia has also had a negative impact on the transport industry in the european south. greek hauliers have lost 10 million euros from the russian embargo, as at least 40% of greek agricultural products were transported to russia by truck. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
the commission mr president, aviation plays an important role in the european economy, supporting 5.5 million jobs, contributing €110 billion to the european union's gdp and boosting tourism and overall economic growth. however, the proposed eu-turkey air transport agreement is highly suspect because of the recent offers made by the european union to the erdoğan government to ensure cooperation in crisis management. commissioner, mrs bulc, the commission must ensure that the sovereign rights and vital interests of each member state, and in particular cyprus and greece, are safeguarded in the context of the proposed aviation agreement, and ensure that turkey fully respects its obligations under the agreement, as well as under european and international law. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the information provided by the member states.
the commission mr president, commissioner, security of supply cannot ignore the immediate response to energy poverty. the new legislative package, which the commission will be presenting to us on 30 november, must tackle energy poverty on the spot. first of all, we need a common definition. those who pay more than 10% of their income for energy: this is no longer an approach that reflects reality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the lack of a single market. they don't have to pay. in greece, the indicators show that 36% of citizens are affected by energy poverty. we need a strategy that will reduce electricity prices, increase the energy efficiency of buildings, set targets for each member state and allow the use of all the european instruments for financing, the so-called esf, the 'juncker package', but also the contribution of the private sector.
the commission mr president, the european union must take serious steps to ensure its energy security. the solution to the problem is the energy independence of the union's member states. a common framework for union action with common principles must be established, within which the member states will retain their sovereign rights and exploit their resources. as regards greece, it must exploit the tap pipeline, the greek stream pipeline, as well as the liquefied gas, natural gas and oil located in the greek eez. in addition, greece must, with the help of the european union, invest not only in alternative energy sources but also in lignite-based power plants, while taking measures to protect the environment. in particular, greece should be granted the same exemption from the obligation to purchase emission allowances as bulgaria and poland. finally, measures must be taken to tackle energy poverty, since the greek people are in danger of freezing again this winter, as the price of heating oil has reached record highs.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr notice maria on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015 [2016/2150 (ini) ] (a8-0331/2016)
the rapporteur. i would also like to welcome the european ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, and congratulate her on her very important work. i would also like to welcome mr timmermans, the vice-president of the commission, who is also contributing with his work to the effort to tackle cases of maladministration in the functioning not only of the commission but of the european union as a whole. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to thank the members of the secretariat of the committee on petitions for the effort they have made. i think the procedure we are discussing today is very important. it is a process of democratic accountability, a process in which we will hear and be able to judge the activity of the european ombudsman. the institution of the european ombudsman is very important, it started in 1996 - if i am not mistaken - and this institution is appointed by the european parliament itself. let me point out that the key element concerning the activity of the european ombudsman comes from article 24 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that citizens have the right to report cases and incidents of maladministration to the european ombudsman. by 'bad administration' we mean a bad and inadequate administration, an administration that violates the law, violates human rights, violates the principles of good administration, which include transparency and conflict of interest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. first of all, how does the ombudsman deal with the case of a conflict of interest or a possible conflict of interest in the functioning of the european central bank, because the european central bank, as you know, is part of the troika, while at the same time it is the lender of the member states, it is the supervisory authority of the banks and it is an independent monetary authority. how does it reconcile all these roles, and under what conditions do we control transparency in decision-making? the same applies to the eurogroup, which is an informal but substantive body, taking important decisions affecting the social and economic lives of european citizens. questions are also being asked about the esm, the agency which gives loans to the member states but also imposes memoranda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we come to the commission's own activity, which is really being scrutinised for the way it has handled the ttip negotiations. there has been criticism from citizens, there has been intervention by the european ombudsman for more transparency and i think the way in which the commission has subsequently provided information on this important issue has opened the way for substantive discussions and comments. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. is it obliged to refer all member states or does it have discretion? at the same time, our report also mentions how the european citizens' initiative should work, what the rights of people with disabilities are, how frontex works and is monitored, what we are doing in the case of 'revolving doors', under what terms and conditions former commissioners who have taken up positions in other organisations are monitored, most notably in the case of mr barosso, who took up a prominent position at goldman sachs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank mrs o'reilly for all the important and interesting things she has said about democracy and transparency and about her cooperation with the european parliament.
the commission mr president, despite the many problems and instances of lack of transparency and mismanagement, mrs o'reilly has an excellent record to show, the result of her tireless efforts to improve the quality of services provided to citizens by european administrations. the issues and areas where the ombudsman should place particular emphasis are: ensuring impartiality in the commission's decision-making procedures on competition matters; increasing transparency in the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership by submitting proposals to the commission; ensuring compliance by member states with the charter of fundamental rights when implementing actions financed by the union funds; continuing her investigations into 'closed-door' cases in the commission; imposing greater transparency in the work of the european central bank; establishing a fully binding and legally binding non-discriminatory framework for the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership; continuing to strengthen the process of cooperation between all the union institutions and bodies in order to ensure that the union's interests are properly represented and that the council continues to act as a forum for the adoption of decisions; ensuring that all the union's interests are represented in the administrative procedures and the decision-making process; ensuring that the council continues to act as a forum for the adoption of decisions by all the union institutions and bodies concerned; ensuring that the council continues to monitor the implementation of the union's interinstitutional work and to ensure that the union's administrative procedures are consistent and coherent. finally, the ombudsman has to protect european citizens from bad decisions of the institutions, which have a direct impact on their daily lives, such as decisions on financial and tax matters.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the report on the activities of the european ombudsman is a good opportunity to identify the problems in the functioning of the european institutions. it is an opportunity to see what issues concern european citizens. it seems that most complaints concern transparency and access to information, union policies and the role of the commission. over 55% of the cases the ombudsman investigates concern the european commission. citizens remain suspicious of its actions and demand control, as they are suspicious of discussions behind closed doors. we all understand that suspicion. i therefore support the report. we need a stronger european ombudsman who will listen to the voices of citizens without discrimination and combat maladministration.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, observing principles of good administration in all our relations with citizens is not only an obligation on eu institutions, it is an imperative if you want to earn citizens’ trust. the ombudsman’s work is essential in making sure we live up to the high standards of public service that citizens rightly expect from all of us, and this was underlined by every single one of you. i want to reiterate this commission’s strong political commitment to the highest standards of transparency and ethics, and i signalled already before that president juncker has addressed a letter to the president of your parliament to have a discussion on the code of conduct. but let’s not forget that in the eyes of our citizens, we are all brussels, regardless of the institution we have the honour to represent. it is therefore essential that together, the three eu institutions involved in lawmaking move to the next stage. this means delivering on the mandatory transparency register we have proposed earlier this summer and hopefully also adopting the giegold report in the european parliament that will help us move forward in that respect. some issues pertaining to the internal workings of the european parliament were also raised this morning. but of course i will leave that entirely to parliament. it is not the commission’s role to comment on the behaviour of ambassador-elect farage.
ombudsman. – mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members for their contributions. this is always a very important meeting for me because it gives me confidence in what i am doing, that the strategy that i am applying and the way in which i am dealing with complaints conform generally to your particular wishes and the values that you wish to see upheld through the work that i do. of course, it also gives me new ideas about particular new areas that i should concentrate on, or about reinforcing the areas that i am working on, and thank you for that. i just want to stress a few things in relation to some of the comments that were made. first of all, my greatest strength as an ombudsman is my independence: my political independence and also my independence from the complainants. in order to work, i need both the confidence of the citizens who come to me for help, but also the confidence of the institutions that i am independent and impartial. i would ask you to continue to support me in that, because it is very important for the work that i do. very briefly, in relation to three particular matters that were raised: there was a question in relation to a particular mep. i just want to stress that it is not part of my mandate to investigate individual meps. if there are particular issues concerning meps that concern some of their colleagues, it is obviously parliament that has to deal with that in the first instance. in relation to the questions on glyphosate and the court ruling, of course i will analyse what the final court ruling is and take guidance from that. the issue of expert groups is something that my office has done a considerable amount of work on, including conflict of interests, where we have made certain proposals in relation to that. of course, i am always willing to hear or receive any complaints in that regard, because it is certainly an area which we take very seriously. in relation to meps’ assistants, i am very aware that some of them do have difficult and challenging work to do in a sometimes very stressful and political environment. we do, and we can, take complaints from them, but generally those complaints would be against the european parliament administration in relation to how they have handled their complaints. obviously that is something i am more than willing to discuss. just to sum up, obviously once again a lot of your focus has been on transparency and i do acknowledge the work that has been done, particularly by vice-president timmermans, in promoting greater transparency. i think there is a particular urgency now, given what has happened, both here in europe and also in the us, to really address citizens’ concerns and to listen to their demands for a greater awareness of what the institutions are doing on their behalf. the conflicts of interest, particularly in relation to the recent high-profile case, has also forced us all to join the dots between things that happen like that and the wider concerns of citizens and how, ultimately, they are expressed at the ballot box. once again, thank you all very much, thank you to mr maris for his report and thank you, mr president.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank the ombudsman, mr timmermans and the other members for their positive comments. i would like to respond to the concerns and comments of colleagues by saying that in the report we do not refer to mr cañete in the first place. the only reference is to mr barroso. secondly, the reports are intended to show the position of the european parliament and also to make it clear that there is a great deal of concern about how revolving doors work. it is important that mr junker has now taken the initiative. it recognises the problem and considers that the code of conduct for members of the commission itself should be changed. so, colleagues, this is something you have to take into account. thirdly, i think that the comments we made about the lack of transparency in ttip have paid off. we made the same remarks last year and we have seen the commission respond. we also all raise the following issue: it is not possible to go into closed rooms, into reading rooms, to read the documents. and that's something we have to deal with and see next year. there are no sacred cows in the european union today. they're all under criticism. there must be transparency everywhere and in everything, including in the eurogroup, which issues decisions affecting the social and economic lives of millions of citizens, which are only available in english. watch this one. the european central bank, which also takes important decisions, must also be criticized. so these are the issues we are discussing. i think it is important that there is very good cooperation between the committee on petitions and the ombudsman. i have touched on this in my book on the european ombudsman, published in 1994, and i emphasized that the basis for the functioning of the institution of the european ombudsman is that there should be proper cooperation between the committee on petitions and the european ombudsman. the european parliament can operate on this basis. our aim is to empower the ombudsman to move forward, to move forward impartially and independently. if we do not guarantee this independence and the possibility of action, i do not think we will achieve anything significant. control of lobbies, rights of disabled people, access to documents and information, even greater protection for whistleblowers, improvement of the functioning of the european citizens' initiative - a very important issue because citizens are taking matters into their own hands - control also in the european chemicals agency to avoid animal testing: all these issues have been raised. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to stress that we have the opportunity to vote on a report which will give the european ombudsman even greater power to act, because she acts on behalf of all the citizens of the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 24 november 2016, at 12 noon. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law under rule 135 of the rules of procedure: the case of imprisoned publisher gui minhai in china (2016/2990 /rsp))
the commission mr president, china has an open economy, an open market and this has helped it to have economic growth. but it must also have an open society. it must respect democracy, freedom, the rule of law and international law. the case we are discussing today of gui minhai, who is a chinese citizen but also a swedish national, is shocking because according to the complaints he has disappeared, been kidnapped and is in prison. this raises enormous questions and, at the same time, anxiety about his fate. i would like to point out that at the beginning of the year thousands of citizens took to the streets of hong kong to protest the disappearance of five bookshops and the attacks on journalists for expressing their views. we therefore call for the immediate release of gui minhai and for detailed information on his whereabouts and condition.
the commission the guarani-kaiowá are indigenous people who have lived in brazil for many centuries, in the state of mato grosso. they have already developed a serious movement, because they are demanding to remain in their ancestral lands, which have been converted into industrialized agriculture by the numerous multinationals that have settled there, including european multinationals. the guarani-kaiowá are now forced to live in poor settlements and work in inhumane conditions. according to data from the brazilian ministry of health, for 14 years we have had murders of indigenous people, 400 at least, and 700 alleged suicides. at the same time, there are constant attacks against them. the guarani-kaiowá's territorial rights must therefore be recognized.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the cooperation we have had. i would also like to thank the house for the large majority it has obtained in adopting the resolution, which now gives the european ombudsman great power to continue her fight for greater transparency for the benefit of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of further macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan, as jordan is a reliable partner of the european union having played a key role in addressing the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the granting of further macrofinancial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. the commission is also aware of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. therefore, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in the face of jordan's economic difficulties, the european union must support its partner, whose policy of welcoming refugees is commendable. but the 350 million proposed in the report as european union macro-financial assistance to jordan is just a joke and i propose that it be tripled by deducting corresponding amounts from the funds earmarked for turkey.
in writing. ‒ in the face of jordan's economic difficulties, the european union must support its partner, whose policy of welcoming refugees is commendable. i therefore vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision granting further macrofinancial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan.
in writing. ‒ the the macroeconomic support for jordan is an issue that must be considered not only in economic terms but also in geopolitical and strategic terms. jordan is in the process of strengthening its partnership with the european union and has an economy that, due to its geographical proximity, has been greatly damaged by the syrian crisis. in addition, jordan, along with lebanon, has the largest influx of syrian migrants relative to its population in the world. it is therefore a strategic priority to support jordan at this stage, which is becoming our strategic partner in the region because of the circumstances.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on macro-financial assistance to jordan since while i highly appreciate the huge efforts of jordanian society and government in hosting millions of syrian refugees and i recognise the necessity to assist jordan, i am in principle against the ‘structural reforms’, adjusted to any macro-financial assistance agreement.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 23 november 2016 and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ in the face of jordan's economic difficulties, the european union must support its partner, whose policy of welcoming refugees is commendable. but the 350 million proposed in the report as european union macro-financial assistance to jordan is just a joke and i propose that it be tripled by deducting corresponding amounts from the funds earmarked for turkey.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, because this recasting was and is a significant step towards an internal market for occupational retirement provision organised on a european scale.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the activities and supervision of institutions providing occupational pension services. this is an attempt to specify specific terms governing pension services. i think that the report does not sufficiently focus on strengthening the public pension system, so i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the it is a fact that in greece the economic and financial crisis has resulted in a reduction in pensions. countries with a distributive system, where pensions are paid from the budget in execution, are facing and will continue to face particular difficulties in financing adequate pensions. we therefore reject the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the activities and supervision of institutions providing occupational pension services.
in writing. ‒ it is a fact that in greece the economic and financial crisis has resulted in a reduction in pensions. countries with a distributive system, where pensions are paid from the budget in execution, are facing and will continue to face particular difficulties in financing adequate pensions. i therefore vote against the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision.
in writing. ‒ the providers of pension schemes are not just financial institutions but mainly actors serving an important social objective: ensuring the economic living conditions of people in their old age. with demographic pressure and rising life expectancy, member states are trying to find ways of ensuring the long-term viability of insurance schemes. moreover, given the circumstances of the crisis which affected member states to different degrees, leaving some of them at a comparative disadvantage, it is important that this directive ensures the greatest possible flexibility for each member state with its specific circumstances.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 23 november 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the social security systems are under great pressure and as a result, citizens may increasingly rely in the future on occupational pension benefits to supplement their retirement savings. the rules laid down in this proposal for a directive aim to ensure a high level of security for all future pensioners by imposing strict standards of supervision within the european union to ensure the prudent management of occupational pension schemes. at the same time, they enhance transparency, the effective information of member states and the development of new and innovative pension products, without, however, calling into question the fundamental importance of social security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in syria because i believe that the eu should not and cannot remain silent in the face of the ongoing massacre in syria and that it should take a leading role and initiatives to find a diplomatic solution to the syrian civil war.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the situation in syria could be an opportunity to express europe's solidarity with the people of the region, who have been tested for years by the fighting and atrocities that have been recorded. however, i do not agree with the reference to foreign policy issues, and that is why i have decided to vote against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - negative as a whole. the whole issue is focused only on the events in aleppo and no specific solutions are being proposed to solve this serious issue. the accusations are only directed against russia and assad and of course there is no mention of turkey and its role.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against all the motions for resolutions. the issue is focused only on the events in aleppo and no specific solutions are proposed to resolve this serious issue. the accusations are only directed against russia and assad and of course there is no mention of turkey and its role.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in syria for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 22 november 2016, and because this joint motion for a resolution is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the whole issue is focused only on the events in aleppo and no specific solutions are being proposed to solve this serious issue. the accusations are only directed against russia and assad and of course there is no mention of turkey and its role.
the commission mr president, the communist party of greece voted in favour of freezing the accession negotiations between the european union and turkey. however, the kke, on the basis of popular interests, has always opposed the accession of turkey as well as greece and every country in the wolf alliance of capital. the european parliament has now hypocritically recalled the authoritarianism of the turkish authorities. he is committed to keeping turkey linked to the european union, he leaves open pre-accession funding and visa waiver, he is prepared to review his position. the kke condemns the wave of persecution of those who oppose the anti-people policy of the turkish government. we condemn the dangerous statements by erdogan, statements calling into question the treaty of lausanne, the borders of greece and other countries. the european parliament, with a last-minute amendment, criticises these statements, while the council, the commission and the governments of other states remain silent, as do the systematic turkish provocations in the aegean. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on it. it is in their interest to join the struggle against imperialism, against capitalist barbarity which gives rise to wars, crises, poverty and refugees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on turkey-eu relations because i believe that the ongoing accession negotiations should only be resumed when the turkish government returns to the path of respect for the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the face of the threat of a nuclear war. as europe cannot stand idly by while the fundamental rights of its citizens are being violated, the turkish leadership is being challenged and its rhetoric is expansionist, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i vote against all the motions for resolutions, as turkey has no place in the european union for the simple reason that it does not belong to europe on all levels, such as culture, customs, customs and history.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution as it calls for the temporary suspension of the ongoing accession negotiations with turkey, and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 22 november 2016.
in writing. ‒ turkey has no place in the european union for the simple reason that it does not belong to europe on all levels, such as culture, customs, customs and history.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women is a further effort to strengthen the protection of women, which we must continue by establishing a specific european framework in the next period, as has already been proposed. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the istanbul convention recognises violence against women as a violation of human rights, which is beyond dispute. in addition to information and awareness-raising at national and eu level, measures are needed to prevent violence, protect victims and prosecute perpetrators.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the european union's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the istanbul convention recognizes violence against women as a violation of human rights, which is beyond dispute. in addition to information and awareness-raising at national and eu level, measures are needed to prevent violence, protect victims and prosecute perpetrators.
in writing. ‒ i voted against since we need a more immediate and effective instrument to fight against domestic violence than spending time and efforts in monitoring the istanbul convention ratification and most importantly implementation of the istanbul convention. instead, we should work on drafting an eu directive on domestic violence.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 23 november 2016, and because this motion for a resolution is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the istanbul convention recognises violence against women as a violation of human rights, which is beyond dispute. in addition to information and awareness-raising at national and eu level, measures are needed to prevent violence, protect victims and prosecute perpetrators.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution is not short of apologies for women's rights or condemnation of violence against them. the resolution, however, takes the actual issue of violence against women in the context of exploitative relationships as a separate issue, and its combating is approached on a 'cost-benefit' basis. it is provocatively estimated that violence against women in 2011 cost 228 billion euros, 45 billion euros correspond to the cost of government services and 24 billion euros to the lost economic output, which concerns also the monopolies. the resolution assigns the responsibility for information to ngos and civil society organisations, including employers and all their mechanisms, while the european union and civil governments are exempted from taking measures to relieve women of their suffering, as there is no relevant report. the european communities group, which for these reasons has been left blank, notes that there must be no tolerance of violence on the part of the working class and the popular strata. they must fight for a society free of the exploitation of man by man, in which the conditions for combating violence against women and for resolving the problem of inequality between women will be created.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the annual report of the european ombudsman's activities in 2015 because significant efforts have been made to improve the quality of services provided to citizens by european administrations.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the annual activity report of the european ombudsman for 2015 is a regular analysis and assessment of the work presented by the office. as the report approaches the issue critically, analysing the bad texts and proposing solutions, i believe it contributes to improving the ombudsman's work and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we take note of the committee of inquiry's annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015, as we welcome the efforts of the european ombudsman to consolidate transparency in the various institutions or bodies of the european union, which take decisions with an impact on european citizens, since they decide on economic and monetary issues (such as the eurogroup) or offer funding to member states under strict conditions and memoranda of understanding (such as the european stability mechanism).
in writing. ‒ i welcome the committee of inquiry's annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015, as i welcome the efforts of the european ombudsman to consolidate transparency in the various institutions or bodies of the european union, which take decisions with an impact on european citizens, since they decide on economic and monetary issues (such as the eurogroup) or offer funding to member states under strict conditions and memoranda of understanding (such as the european stability mechanism).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on the european ombudsman’s activities, since she did a really great job in tackling many important challenges that europe currently faces, such as whistleblower protection and transparency of ecb activities.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the annual activity report of the european ombudsman for 2015, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 24 november 2016, and because the motion for a resolution in question is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the efforts of the european ombudsman to consolidate transparency in the various institutions or bodies of the european union, which take decisions with an impact on european citizens, since they decide on economic and monetary issues (such as the eurogroup) or offer funding to member states under strict conditions and memoranda of understanding (such as the european stability mechanism).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'towards a definitive system of value added tax (vat) and the fight against vat fraud' because i believe it is important to improve the existing system and to make fundamental reforms in order to eliminate or significantly reduce the problems it presents.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on a definitive system of value added tax and the fight against vat fraud, which contains some positive elements in the attempt to ensure that the legality is respected. the report does not, however, provide adequate solutions to the differences between member states, and although the proposal to simplify vat systems is correct, the procedure proposed is vague and incomplete. therefore, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the for greece, the imposition of a high vat rate is, inter alia, currently a tool of fiscal subordination to the creditors' demands. the existence of such a vat, which is charged to the final recipient of the product or service in question, does not help the development of the economy. the rationalization of vat is the first issue, a subject which this report deals with superficially and in a negative way with regard to the economically weak countries.
in writing. ‒ the for greece, the imposition of a high vat rate is, inter alia, currently a tool of fiscal subordination to the creditors' demands. the existence of such a vat, which is charged to the final recipient of the product or service in question, does not help the development of the economy. the rationalization of vat is the first issue, a subject which this report deals with superficially and in a negative way with regard to the economically weak countries. for these reasons, i am voting against the report on 'towards a definitive system of value added tax (vat) and the fight against vat fraud'.
in writing. ‒ the vat is an important source of income for member states which need these resources to finance a socially just and functional standard of living. in the european union, vat is equivalent to 7% of the union's gdp. however, it is estimated that there is a vat revenue gap of around eur 150 billion per year, mainly created by cross-border trade due to the different vat systems in the different member states, some of which refuse to harmonise with the rest of the member states, thus maximising the risks of tax evasion or fraud. the financial gap is thus returned to the citizens, either through poor quality services or through increased tax burdens on consumption. the member states which refuse to align themselves must do so immediately and the commission must take initiatives which will ultimately ensure that the member states' ability to set the level of vat will also be economically neutral, simple, transparent and functional.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report 'towards a definitive system of value added tax (vat) and the fight against vat fraud' for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 23 november 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the for greece, the imposition of a high vat rate is, inter alia, currently a tool of fiscal subordination to the creditors' demands. the existence of such a vat, which is charged to the final recipient of the product or service in question, does not help the development of the economy. the rationalization of vat is the first issue, a subject which this report deals with superficially and in a negative way with regard to the economically weak countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union action plan to combat illegal wildlife trade because i believe that this phenomenon, which has become a multi-million euro criminal industry, must be tackled immediately.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the european union action plan to combat illegal wildlife trade. the report is a particularly important effort to protect species threatened directly or indirectly by illegal trade, while at the same time aiming to protect the environment. i think this is a very positive initiative and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the we disregard the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the european union action plan to combat wildlife trafficking, as the first priority of the action plan is to prevent wildlife trafficking and tackle its root causes, the second priority of the action plan is to ensure the effective implementation and enforcement of existing rules to combat organised wildlife crime, and the third priority is to strengthen global cooperation among countries of origin, consumption and transit to combat wildlife trafficking. finally, the european union itself is a very active market for the trade in illegal wildlife products. it is not only a transit point and a destination market, but also a source of illegal wildlife products, which are protected under union law.
in writing. ‒ the i support the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the eu action plan to combat wildlife trafficking, as the first priority of the action plan is to prevent wildlife trafficking and tackle its root causes, the second priority of the action plan is to ensure the effective implementation and enforcement of existing rules to combat organised wildlife crime, and the third priority is to strengthen global cooperation among countries of origin, consumption and transit to combat wildlife trafficking. finally, the european union itself is a very active market for the trade in illegal wildlife products. it is not only a transit point and a destination market, but also a source of illegal wildlife products, which are protected under union law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since the report is aimed at fighting wildlife trafficking by establishing, inter alia, the full and immediate ban of the trade of ivory at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the european union action plan to combat wildlife trafficking for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 23 november 2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the first priority of the action plan is to prevent wildlife trafficking and address its root causes, the second priority of the action plan is to ensure the effective implementation and enforcement of existing rules to combat organised wildlife crime, and the third priority is to strengthen global cooperation among countries of origin, consumption and transit to combat wildlife trafficking.
in writing. ‒ the the illegal trade in wildlife is a scourge inherent in the capitalist mode of production, as it flourishes in conditions where the pursuit of profit is the criterion of all human activity, whether legal or illegal. the report proposes a number of measures (sanctions, specific references to trade agreements, exchange of information, financial support for awareness-raising actions in third countries) which are intended to be used as an opportunity for penetration and as an indirect trade protection mechanism for the benefit of enterprises. it entrusts law enforcement agencies such as europol, eurojust, the eeas with the implementation of european union policy and 'experts' or ngos, another tool of infiltration under the guise of 'raising awareness' among local populations. the european union's involvement in illegal trade is part of the business competition for control of market areas and is not at all aimed at suppressing smuggling or protecting wildlife, since the capitalist economy that the european union serves creates the conditions for perpetuating such phenomena and sacrifices everything on the altar of profitability. the environmental protection cannot therefore be dealt with independently of the production motive. only a development path with an organization of economy and society based on the social ownership of all natural resources with workers' power can create the conditions for environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on new opportunities for small transport enterprises, including cooperative business models, because i believe that these enterprises are an integral part of mobility in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report on new opportunities for small transport enterprises, including cooperative business models, is an attempt to revitalise and boost the transport enterprise sector, with a particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. although it contains positive elements, certain references to labour issues are of a contrary nature to me and i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ today, because of the divergences and the failures in the application of the law, economic and social market distortions still exist, while small businesses are even more affected by the absence of a genuine single european transport area. we are voting against the report because we agree with the rapporteur and his proposals to turn the many challenges into opportunities for small businesses.
in writing. ‒ today, because of the divergences and the failures in the application of the law, economic and social market distortions still exist, while small businesses are even more affected by the absence of a genuine single european transport area. i am voting in favour of the report because i agree with the rapporteur and his proposals to turn the many challenges into opportunities for small businesses.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report since while i am sharing many points that the rapporteur has presented here, the report as a whole lacks clarity and requires further research especially when it comes to the differentiation between sme and collaborative business models.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on new opportunities for small transport enterprises, including cooperative business models, for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 23 november 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ because of the divergences and the failures in the application of the law, economic and social market distortions persist, while small businesses are even more affected by the absence of a genuine single european transport area.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus. although this proposal contains positive proposals for improving democratic and social mechanisms, i do not agree with its strong focus on foreign policy and international relations. that's why i decided to stay away.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the resolution on the situation in belarus. it would be good if the european union and the united states kept their interference in the constitutions of independent states to a more discreet level. belarus is a state trying to recover and needs substantive help, not suggestions on how it should function as a nation.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 26 october 2016, and because this joint motion for a resolution is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ interventions in the constitutions of independent states by the european union must be limited before they become law. belarus is a state trying to recover and needs substantive help, not suggestions on how it should function as a nation.
the commission mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs georgieva on her appointment to the world bank and wish her every success in her work. mr president, we are again in the same play, with a budget that is an austerity budget, and that is not the way to deal with the economic crisis or the refugee crisis. the commission is proposing to increase the budget for the european union to €4 million for employment and €115 million for asylum and immigration. it is true that 530 million euros are also earmarked for security and citizenship, but these amounts are very small, especially the amounts earmarked for combating unemployment, since europe is plagued by armies of unemployed people, mainly young people. the sums allocated to the refugee crisis are also insufficient. greece has so far spent 2.5 billion euros to deal with the refugee crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission mr president, the multiannual financial framework in its present form is a failed model for allocating the union's resources over time; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the implementation of the budget, including the rules on the budgetary procedure, the rules on the budgetary procedure and the rules on the budgetary procedure. does that mean prediction? does it mean growth? does it mean flexibility? at the same time, erdogan is blackmailing the union with hordes of illegal immigrants and is directly threatening greece and cyprus with an invasion of their territories. is europe economically able to cope with such a possible development with the tools at its disposal? the multiannual financial framework should be abolished. the commission's position is to adopt a three-year comprehensive operational plan with general quotas on the important aspects of the union's economic policy, with a large margin of flexibility, with emphasis on real growth, on jobs, not just on employment for citizens, and on tackling economic imbalances between member states. as you have seen, the structure called the european union in its present form is collapsing. if you want to save it, make some brave decisions. the european union must be a europe of the people. it is the only way out, because very soon you will get a reply from italy, france, austria, the netherlands.
the commission the budgetary framework, mr president, is essentially a narrow band of forced fiscal adjustment in the service of merkel's austerity. what we urgently need as the european union is a change of policy: to boost growth, to create jobs, to invest in education, training, new technologies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have already mentioned this in my previous speech. the second requirement is that this policy should be put at the service of a europe of peoples, a europe of nation states, a europe of homelands. the third is to put it at the service of a social europe and the fair distribution of the wealth produced, and finally the multiannual financial framework must be a flexible instrument and in fact be transformed and replaced, i would say, by a strategic plan for the european union's productive reconstruction.
the commission the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the southern part of the community, and has called for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the agreement is implemented. the report says that ghana mainly exports fruit and fish. secondly, in ghana there is child labour, particularly in the agricultural sectors. but what does ghana import? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. over 35% of european exports to ghana have already been released. that's the real situation. what if the european farmers want to export to ghana? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, such agreements should include provisions on immigration, and these countries should be bound by immigration, because thousands of their nationals are coming to europe.
the commission madam president, the council has drawn up a draft decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the united states on the protection of personal information, in order to enable criminal offences such as terrorism to be detected, investigated and prosecuted. if we look at the text of the agreement from a technocratic point of view, it is moving in the right direction, because it is based on a sound legal basis, it guarantees to a large extent the protection of the right to the security of personal data and, in agreement with the united states congress, it allows european citizens to prosecute united states agencies which violate the privacy of the personal data of individuals who have provided them with them. as i said before, all of this sounds good. but the bad experience we have gained from the behaviour of the united states during the ttip negotiations should make us particularly cautious, because what will happen in the event of mass processing and leakage of personal data? how will the us authorities handle this situation? will they enforce the terms of the agreement or will they try to exempt from the application of american law those agencies that have violated the secrecy? so we must look at the agreement not technically but substantially and agree only on the condition that rules are put in place that either limit the possibility of leaks or, if they do, prosecute the ..... )
the commission madam president, the protection of personal information is a fundamental right and any processing of personal data is prohibited. it is only possible for reasons of public interest and under strict conditions and also with judicial protection and in accordance with the laws of the european union. it is clear that there is a gap between the data protection guarantees offered by the eu-us umbrella agreement and the requirements of eu law. it is remarkable that pressure is being exerted to approve this agreement so quickly, at a time when the european union's court of justice is still awaiting a ruling on the pnr agreement, that is, the agreement between the european union and canada. i therefore believe that referral to the court of justice of the european union provides additional guarantees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. in point 8, processing will not only be carried out by the requesting authority but also by other authorities that may request it.
madam president, much has been said on this subject, and i shall only underline the words of my predecessors. it is very good that the european union is sending its delegation to this global internet forum. the image of the internet is a very important thing. he belongs to a free society. we have to do our utmost to make sure that the governance of the internet, which is in fact going into private hands, into the domain of the private sector, is done effectively and that some of the key issues that are being discussed, such as access to the internet for young people, for genders, such as access to the internet in third countries, such as the issue of privacy, the protection of human rights and the protection of freedom of expression on the internet, are the subject of a meaningful debate. i am for absolute freedom of speech on the internet, on the other hand we must point out that this freedom is sometimes abused, for example in the case of the czech republic by russia, which spreads false information on the internet. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i don't know if it was a mistranslation, but i didn't quite get the question. i will therefore respond to what my colleague said. i totally agree. our aim is to do everything we can to ensure that the internet is open, that there is freedom of expression, that it is not fragmented and that the internet is more or less accessible to citizens in third countries. this is a pressing issue where the european union should clearly support that as many people as possible on this planet have free access to the internet.
the commission madam president, dns is one of the most important pillars of the internet, linking ip addresses to providers. the united states has always had ultimate control over the control of the dns, and the transfer of management of iana from the u.s. government to the non-profit organization icann marks the end of u.s. control and management of the internet. this us action is an open, stable step and combines multilateral control of the internet. it limits washington's power over internet governance and puts control under an international umbrella. the parties involved should ensure that the internet is and remains a single, open, neutral, free and uninterrupted network during the transition period.
the commission mr president, what significance do the occasional floods in the working-class areas of western athens or the devastating fire in thasos, which has reduced to ashes thousands of hectares of forest and livestock crops, have for the european union? what significance does the great fire in chios, which destroyed forests, mastic trees and crops, or in northern evia, 25,000 hectares of pine forest and the unemployed resin producers, have for the european union? what importance does the european union attach to the earthquake-stricken working class families and the self-employed in lefkada after the earthquakes there? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission, in response to persistent questions from the communist party of greece, admits that even if the european union were to compensate the victims, it would be a pittance. it also makes clear that it does not compensate working-class households and the self-employed, who are the ones who are objectively most affected by natural disasters, being vulnerable and vulnerable to them. at the same time, it is provoking to consider as eligible funds relating to infrastructure which are dominated by large business groups, to which the bulk of the money from the solidarity fund and other eurofunds is directed. the communist party of greece demands immediate and full compensation for all those affected by the natural disasters, immediate coverage of the chronic tragic shortages in infrastructure and modern means of protection against them.
the commission madam president, on behalf of the greek people, i would like to express our solidarity with those affected by the recent earthquakes in italy. the solidarity fund is a decisive instrument and must be used and its resources given to support the victims of the earthquakes in italy. the same applies, of course, to the compensation for the damage caused by the storms, floods and fires which have struck greece this year. as i pointed out in my question to mrs crețu, four regions of greece, the municipalities of thermaikos, kalamata, thassos and pyrgos, have recently suffered disasters from extreme weather events. in your reply, mrs crețu, you mentioned that greece has 400 million euro from the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund. but the question is this: given the damage suffered by the inhabitants of these areas and the high economic cost of this damage to the local authorities, what measures does the commission intend to take, mrs crețu, to compensate the inhabitants of these areas? this is an important question and i would like, if you can, to have an answer.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the report on the declarations of financial interests of members of the european commission, which we are considering today, has as its central idea that the control of these declarations must be made more thorough and more rigorous. this is absolutely necessary to protect the credibility of the european union itself, at a time when a series of events, such as the appointment of former president barroso to a key position in a private bank shortly after he left the commission, have revealed hidden links with private interests. moreover, the examination of the declarations of financial interests of the members of the juncker committee in 2014 showed that the european parliament's committee on legal affairs needs to be given more powers and more time to be able to ascertain whether the declarations are true or not. there have been cases of commissioners, like mr cañete, where open questions arose from the content of the statement or from other elements but these were not sufficiently investigated. it is not enough for commissioners to appear honest. they must be honest. the european left will therefore support this report in the vote tomorrow and we hope that the necessary amendments to the relevant rules will follow.
the commission madam president, it has recently been confirmed that we already knew that top officials of the european commission, including its president, mr barroso, are exposed to conflicts of interest. this makes it imperative and absolutely necessary to establish at last stricter control frameworks for the conflict of interests which prevails at many levels in the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it mandates the european ombudsman to check the legality of mr barroso's appointment to goldman sachs. this also forced mr juncker to change course and propose, on the day my report was discussed in strasbourg, a change in the code of conduct of the commissioners themselves. it is therefore clear that measures and action are needed to ensure full transparency in the european union, so that there is no conflict of interest at all levels.
the rapporteur. madam president, the report on the responsibility for offshore oil and gas activities is the result of a long effort to bring about changes for the benefit of europe and its citizens. the proposals in this report do not only affect economic activities but are also intended to support the environmental needs of the european periphery. operations related to oil and gas production have a significant economic impact and a high environmental risk. most of the oil and gas activities take place either in the north sea or in the mediterranean. the nature of this work makes it extremely important to ensure the protection of businesses, which are directly linked to the environment. the commercial fisheries sector and the people involved in the fish farming sector can suffer significant economic losses from accidents or misuse of chemicals. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and the airlines was signed on 30 june 2012 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. it is therefore obvious that we must have rules to protect all those economic activities which are located close to offshore activities, exploitation of oil and gas fields, given that over 90% of the oil and 60% of the gas produced in europe comes from such offshore activities. it is also of the utmost importance that there are mechanisms for compensating for damage caused by offshore activities and corresponding mechanisms aimed at restoring ecosystems. the current european directive makes the holders of offshore licences responsible for preventing and remedying any environmental damage resulting from their activities. it also requires member states to establish procedures for dealing with compensation claims. however, the directive does not deal with liability for damage to natural or legal persons in respect of injury or pecuniary damage, nor with criminal liability for offshore accidents. the importance of further harmonised rules and of a compensation mechanism for offshore accidents should therefore be assessed in order to facilitate access to justice for victims. to promote this harmonisation, the possibility of establishing a fund based on fees paid by offshore industries could also be considered. we also need a european union action plan to prevent and combat the consequences of oil and gas accidents. their impact has serious and long-term implications for the marine environment and this should be taken into account in the directive. the commission should cooperate with the member states in order to speed up the relevant procedures. risk analysis and environmental impact assessment for offshore activities could also be published on a regular basis, according to parameters such as biodiversity, climate change, sustainable land use, protection of the marine environment and appropriate staff training before any authorisation of operations. it is my personal belief that prevention is better than cure and that the institution of criminal liability at european level could be an additional deterrent, in addition to existing civil penalties, thus leading to better protection of the environment and citizens.
the commission madam president, oil and gas make up half of the european union's energy mix and will continue to be the main sources of energy for several years to come. at the same time, an increasing proportion of these sources are coming from offshore activities. it is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure a high level of safety and to prevent natural disasters from these offshore activities. the deepwater horizon accident in the gulf of mexico cost billions of dollars to the american economy. we therefore understand that a similar accident in a closed sea such as the mediterranean would be many times more devastating, and that is why stricter rules and standards should be established on the liability of oil companies, and because these disasters do not stop at the borders of states, this high level of safety in offshore oil activities should apply everywhere. in particular, in view of the work in the ionian and adriatic, albania should comply with these rules and finally stop claiming the greek eez.
the commission madam president, in the name of debt, valuation, and the recovery of capital profitability, the syriza-anel government, the european union and the international monetary fund are blackmailing and demanding new popular sacrifices, the imposition by law of the nightmares for workers that are being promoted today in the workplace through corporate and individual contracts. the european acquis is not to leave standing any acquired labour rights. the best practices of the european union that the government serves at the behest of employers in greece are the liberation of slave-trading offices, bargaining and starvation wages, zero-hour contracts, mass layoffs. you know what to look out for, that's why you're targeting the right to strike. you know that danger for you and real way out for the workers lies in the reorganization of their movement, in their organized struggle against anti-people measures to recover losses and meet modern needs. on december 8th the working class with a great mass nationwide strike answers for everything.
the commission the european union must not be allowed to become a mere spectator, but must be able to take part in the process of european integration, and this must be done in a spirit of solidarity and solidarity. but it is not humanistic to cram refugees into makeshift camps and then serve the social dumping imposed by multinationals. the european union must respond decisively to the flows of refugees and migrants. the european union must therefore step up its efforts to bring peace to the middle east, crack down on the traffickers' networks and put pressure on erdogan to implement the eu-turkey agreement. the valletta agreement must also be implemented, the relocation of refugees from greece and italy to other countries of the union must be completed and the ineffective and unfair dublin iii rules must be urgently changed. the greek people must not pay for the european union's confrontations and short-sighted policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the islands is not worsened. greece is not a storehouse of souls.
the commission i would like to ask you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a question: in the morning, when you leave your home, you probably lock your door. the same is true at night, before you go to sleep. why would you do that? are you afraid of a stranger coming in? are you xenophobic, racist and intolerant? just as you have the right to protect your home and to choose whom you will receive and host, so do countries. it's not a matter of xenophobia, it's a matter of legality. you are very willing to baptize those who do not agree with the prevailing liberal ideology as extremists and extremists, while you demonstrate daily by your practices your concept of a democracy, where everyone is free to say whatever they want, as long as they do not disagree with your views. i would also like to say that i have never seen you concerned about the systematic racism and discrimination against the indigenous people of europe. in the name of the so-called protection of the rights of immigrants, you are discriminating against the majority, and in particular in some countries you are making the lives of citizens unbearable in order to impose your ideology. do you not realize how provocative it sounds to the ears of millions of homeless people in greece to call vulnerable groups real or non-minorities, while they are not able to provide even the basics? do you know that it is clearly easier in greece right now to be a refugee or an illegal immigrant than to be an unemployed greek? for example, illegal immigrants have free access to the health system, which is not the case for unemployed greeks. but the people will soon overturn your destructive policy with their vote. now no one doubts the coming historic changes and you fear them. you should be.
the commission mr president, historical experience has shown that economic difficulties, long-term economic recession, but especially the economic crisis and the increase in unemployment among young people, who feel deprived of any prospect of genuine social integration, are decisive factors in the emergence of racism, xenophobia and intolerance. these phenomena seem to be intensifying in the countries of europe where migration flows are increasing, especially the waves of illegal immigrants. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the fight against poverty therefore involves combating those policies and actions that deepen poverty, provoke war and cause mass displacement. if we do not talk about austerity, the dublin iii regulation, the need for a peace process in the middle east and the need to build societies based on solidarity and mutual aid rather than on inhumane competition, we cannot fight xenophobia and racism.
the commission the obvious inability of political parties and individual politicians to deal with the problems created in all the countries of europe, and especially in greece, by the massive and uncontrolled arrival of millions of illegal immigrants, is pushing them to create new concepts, to distort old ones and to try in this way to say that they will deal with the issue. so the reaction of, for example, parents of children in greece to accept unvaccinated children of illegal immigrants who carry a plethora of diseases into their schools is called racism. the condemnation of the criminal behavior and criminality of illegal immigrants is called xenophobia. when measures are taken against illegal immigrants, then we are extreme and we have bigotry. all of this is designed to create a guilt complex in the world so that it does not react and that is why any reaction is criminalized. but this is the way the world is being divided and racism is being applied against the indigenous people of europe.
the commission mr president, the human rights situation in the democratic republic of congo continues to deteriorate, while mr kabila's decision to extend his term in office has provoked a storm of opposition. so sexual violence, the restriction of freedom of expression, is a daily occurrence, while police violence against activists and dissidents is common. at the same time, the illegal activities of certain multinational companies in the congo are further destabilising the country. if there is anything europe can do to protect the congolese people, it is to find a political solution that will allow every citizen and every peaceful civil society organisation to exercise their right to freedom of expression, association and association without fear of persecution and arrest, and also to stop the illegal activities of some european multinationals in the country and to impose sanctions on those who violate human rights.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the amendment of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 establishing the union customs code, as regards goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air, contributes to the effort to further establish rules governing economic and legal structures in europe, aimed at combating dysfunctions as well as economic irregularities. i think that such action is necessary and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ states should have the right to impose restrictions on the movement of goods when this is in the interest of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 establishing the union customs code, as regards goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air, as states should have the right to impose restrictions on the movement of goods where this is in the interest of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 establishing the union customs code, as regards goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air, because it is complete and well-documented.
in writing. ‒ states should have the right to impose restrictions on the movement of goods when this is in the interest of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the the report on key information documents relating to retail and insurance-based investment products as regards its date of application seeks to establish rules relating to investment activities with a view to enhancing investor protection and restoring consumer confidence in the financial services industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are properly applied, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. ‒ the the proposed 12-month deferral is an attempt to give stakeholders (producers of packaged retail and insurance-based investment products) more time to comply with the new requirements when drawing up the envisaged key information document (kid). the application of this regulation will have the effect of postponing the transparency of the investment market for private investors.
in writing. ‒ i am against the report, as the proposed 12-month delay is an attempt to give stakeholders (manufacturers of packaged retail and insurance-based investment products) more time to comply with the new requirements when drawing up the envisaged key information document (kid). the application of this regulation will have the effect of postponing the transparency of the investment market for private investors.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents relating to packaged retail and insurance-based investment products as regards its date of application, as it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the the proposed 12-month deferral is an attempt to give stakeholders (producers of packaged retail and insurance-based investment products) more time to comply with the new requirements when drawing up the envisaged key information document (kid). the application of this regulation will have the effect of postponing the transparency of the investment market for private investors.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the eu-kiribati short-stay visa waiver agreement is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. the eu-kiribati agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is not a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, and i therefore vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the eu-kiribati short-stay visa waiver agreement is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the eu-solomon islands agreement on visa-free short-stay visas is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. the eu-solomon islands agreement on visa waiver for short stays is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights, and i therefore oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver, because it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu-solomon islands visa waiver agreement is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the eu-micronesia short-stay visa waiver agreement is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. the eu-micronesia short-stay visa waiver agreement is not a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights, and i therefore vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu-micronesia short-stay visa waiver agreement is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the eu-tuvalu agreement on visa waiver for short stays is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. the eu-tuvalu agreement on visa waiver for short stays is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights, and i therefore vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver, because it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu-tuvalu agreement on visa waiver for short stays is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the eu-n. marshall agreement on short-stay visa waiver is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. the eu-n. marshall agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights, so i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu-n. marshall agreement on short-stay visa waiver is not a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. ‒ the report on the evaluation of the european union solidarity fund is a good attempt to analyse and improve the activities of the fund, which i believe contributes to its more effective functioning. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ national states know their needs much better than the union, so we are against any requirement for mandatory national plans.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the european union solidarity fund: an evaluation, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in brussels on 30/11/2016, and because the report is well documented.
in writing. ‒ the national states are much more aware of their needs than the union.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the request for an opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences is a reasonable and correct proposal. it is particularly important that we examine all aspects of these agreements in order to protect the interests and above all the rights of citizens. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ any cooperation between law enforcement authorities must be based on the principles of transparency and accountability.
in writing. ‒ i reject the opinion of the court on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union for the protection of personal data against processing for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, as any cooperation between law enforcement authorities must be based on the principles of transparency and accountability.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the request for an opinion of the european court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data for the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ any cooperation between law enforcement authorities must be based on the principles of transparency and accountability.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information for the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. although the effective tackling of criminal offences should be a priority for us, i believe that this report does not sufficiently cover the need to protect citizens' personal data and therefore i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ practice has shown that numerous safeguards and guarantees do not guarantee a high level of protection of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, nor do they contribute to legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ practice has shown that numerous safeguards and guarantees do not guarantee a high level of protection of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data nor do they contribute to legal certainty, which is why i am opposed to the us-eu agreement on the protection of personal information in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report since i believe that the agreement does not meet the requirements of the eu charter and eu law and fails to provide the required level of protections. moreover, the wording within the report is ambiguous regarding core provisions (purpose limitation, onward transfer) and does not provide effective judicial redress to all individuals of the eu as the charter requires.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information for the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 30/11/2016, and because the recommendation is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ practice has shown that numerous safeguards and guarantees do not guarantee a high level of protection of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, nor do they contribute to legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation on the conclusion of the interim economic partnership agreement between ghana and the european community and its member states does not focus on issues of developing greater cooperation for the benefit of citizens and therefore i believe that it cannot have positive effects. i therefore decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed to revive an outdated 2007 agreement which, no doubt, cannot fully respond to the conditions of 2016, in order to avoid disruption of trade for ghana, while paving the way for a future wto. the european policy in concluding bilateral preferential trade agreements should be based on the implementation of updated and integrated solutions rather than temporary deficient agreements.
in writing. ‒ my vote is negative, as it proposes to revive an outdated agreement of 2007 which, no doubt, cannot fully respond to the conditions of 2016, in order to avoid disruption of trade for ghana, while leaving the ground for a future wto. the european policy in concluding bilateral preferential trade agreements should be based on the implementation of updated and integrated solutions rather than temporary deficient agreements.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement had foreseen that the eu and the acp countries would conclude the negotiations by the end of 2007. i voted against, since there are some contentious issues: in particular concerning the liberalisation schedule and it is also outdated. international competition with eu products on manufactured goods will also greatly affect regional integration of ghana.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the interim economic partnership agreement between ghana, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 30/11/2016, and because the recommendation is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed to revive an outdated 2007 agreement which, no doubt, cannot fully respond to the conditions of 2016, in order to avoid disruption of trade for ghana, while paving the way for a future wto. the european policy in concluding bilateral preferential trade agreements should be based on the implementation of updated and integrated solutions rather than temporary deficient agreements.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the additional capacity mechanism for unforeseen needs for 2016. the existence of such mechanisms can only have positive consequences for the member states and citizens, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources. the financing of turkey in the context of the alleged control of migration flows leads to a complete absorption of these available funds, with the result that, in the event of unforeseen adverse situations in the future, there is no necessary flexibility.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016, as the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework has led to the squandering of union resources. the financing of turkey in the context of the alleged control of migration flows leads to a complete absorption of these available funds, with the result that, in the event of unforeseen adverse situations in the future, there is no necessary flexibility.
in writing. ‒ i am against the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016 because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources. the financing of turkey in the context of the alleged control of migration flows leads to a complete absorption of these available funds, with the result that, in the event of unforeseen adverse situations in the future, there is no necessary flexibility.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016, in particular the updating of appropriations to reflect the most recent developments in migration and security, the reduction of payment and commitment appropriations, the amendment of the staff establishment plan of frontex and the updating of revenue appropriations. i believe that although this report could contribute to a better allocation of europe's resources, it does not achieve its objectives, and that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, the inappropriate use of frontex staff and the support for the failed junker plan, in conjunction with the implementation of a flawed multiannual financial framework, lead to the misuse of union resources.
in writing. ‒ the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, the inappropriate use of frontex staff and the support for the failed juncker plan, in conjunction with the implementation of a flawed multiannual financial framework, lead to the misuse of union resources, which is why i am voting against draft amending budget no 4/2016: updating appropriations to take account of recent developments in migration and security, reducing payment and commitment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i have just voted on the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: updating appropriations to reflect the most recent developments in migration and security, reduction of payment and commitment appropriations as a result of the overall transfer, extension of the operation of the efsi, modification of the staff establishment plan of frontex and updating of revenue appropriations as insufficiently documented.
in writing. ‒ the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, the inappropriate use of frontex staff and the support for the failed junker plan, in conjunction with the implementation of a flawed multiannual financial framework, lead to the misuse of union resources.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016, the implementation of decision 2014/335/eu on own resources after the end of the ratification procedure and its entry into force on 1 october 2016. the report relates to the redistribution of member states' obligations and the restructuring of eu resources. i believe that the proposed changes not only do not solve the existing problems of the european economy, but on the contrary create further inequalities and distortions, and i have therefore decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the eu's own resources system must ensure that member states are fairly burdened according to their financial capacity and their particular budgetary circumstances.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: implementation of decision 2014/335/eu on own resources after the completion of the ratification procedure and its entry into force on 1 october 2016 as incomplete and not substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the eu's own resources system must ensure that member states are fairly burdened according to their financial capacity and their particular budgetary circumstances.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany confirms the role of the fund, as it aims at providing assistance following the floods in germany in may and june 2016. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i am against the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide aid to germany, as the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 accompanying the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany confirms the role of the fund, as it aims at providing assistance following the floods in germany in may and june 2016. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i vote against draft amending budget no 6/2016 accompanying the proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany, as the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 accompanying the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany, as it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017. this is a positive report which aims to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, especially as additional financial needs are likely to arise in relation to internal security crises and current challenges in the humanitarian sector, migration and refugees, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources. the continuation of the financing of turkey, in the context of the alleged control of the migratory flows, leads to the necessity of finding various mechanisms to mobilize the margin for unforeseen needs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017, as the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework has led to the squandering of union resources. the continuation of the financing of turkey in the context of the alleged control of the migration flows leads to the necessity of finding various mechanisms to mobilize the margin for unforeseen needs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017 because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources. the continuation of the financing of turkey, in the context of the alleged control of the migratory flows, leads to the necessity of finding various mechanisms to mobilize the margin for unforeseen needs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility mechanism to finance immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current migration, refugee and security crisis. it is clear that this report is aimed at improving the capacity to deal with the problems that have plagued europe in recent times, and it is directly linked to the refugee question. i think it can only have positive results, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources. the financing of turkey, in the context of the alleged control of migration flows, leads to a complete absorption of these available funds, with the result that, in the event of unforeseen adverse situations in the future, there is no necessary flexibility.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the mobilisation of the flexibility mechanism to finance immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current migration, refugee and security crisis, as the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources. the financing of turkey in the context of the alleged control of migration flows leads to a complete absorption of these available funds, with the result that, in the event of unforeseen adverse situations in the future, there is no necessary flexibility.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility mechanism to finance immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current migration, refugee and security crisis, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources. the financing of turkey, in the context of the alleged control of migration flows, leads to a complete absorption of these available funds, with the result that, in the event of unforeseen adverse situations in the future, there is no necessary flexibility.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to pay advances to the general budget of the european union for 2017 aims at achieving faster results, a better functioning of the european union and cooperation between member states. i think that is a positive proposal and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu must use all available tools and proactively take the necessary actions to respond in a timely and effective manner to unforeseen disasters on its territory.
in writing. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to pay advances to the general budget of the european union for 2017, as the eu must use all available tools and proactively take the necessary actions to respond in a timely and effective manner to unforeseen disasters on its territory.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide advances to the general budget of the union for 2017, because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu must use all available tools and proactively take the necessary actions to respond in a timely and effective manner to unforeseen disasters on its territory.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. as this report does not adequately address issues directly affecting citizens and their rights, i believe it will not have the desired results and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the union budget must take account of the current adverse situations and seek to address them, while keeping the well-being of the citizens of all member states at its core. its level of flexibility is required to be high enough to be able to deal with new challenges and emerging threats.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, adopted by the conciliation committee in the context of the budgetary procedure, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 30/11/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the union budget must take account of the current adverse situations and seek to address them, while keeping the well-being of the citizens of all member states at its core. its level of flexibility is required to be high enough to be able to deal with new challenges and emerging threats.
the commission the european union is also committed to the development of the mediterranean region, and the european union is committed to the development of the mediterranean region, and the european union is committed to the development of the mediterranean region. i have a number of examples of how he has strengthened greece. i will mention only one: we were given eur 16.3 million in aid for natural disasters in greece and bulgaria just last october, and that is significant. but i believe that we must pass directly from the era of damage compensation and healing to the era of prevention, and that is why i propose that there should be projects for the prevention of natural disasters, financed entirely by the structural funds and without national participation, especially in countries that are constantly affected, and the examples of greece, bulgaria and italy are relevant.
in writing. ‒ the the motion for a resolution on the situation in italy following the earthquakes of the past year confirms our readiness to support the people and the italian state who have been severely affected and are facing major disasters. i believe it is our duty to provide all possible assistance and that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against because the motion for a resolution does not really address the problems of the affected areas, but rather shows that the approach is piecemeal and always under the guise of austerity measures.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the reports as a whole on the situation in italy after the earthquakes, as the motion for a resolution does not really address the problems of the affected areas. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in italy following the earthquakes for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 30/11/2016, and because this joint motion for a resolution is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the resolution does not really address the problems of the affected areas, but rather shows that the approach is piecemeal and always under the guise of austerity measures.
in writing. ‒ the the report on commissioners' declarations of financial interests is an important step in tackling the phenomenon of lack of transparency and its central idea is that the control of the declarations of financial interests of the members of the european commission should be made more thorough and rigorous. this is absolutely necessary to protect the credibility of the european union itself and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the definition of the scope of the control of commissioners' declarations of financial interests, as proposed here, presents serious legislative gaps in terms of ensuring transparency and the number of financial items required (for declaration).
in writing. ‒ the definition of the scope of the control of commissioners' declarations of financial interests, as proposed here, presents serious legislative gaps in terms of ensuring transparency and the number of financial items to be declared, and i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on commissioners' declarations of financial interests guidelines for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 30/11/2016, and because the report is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the definition of the scope of the control of commissioners' declarations of financial interests, as proposed here, presents serious legislative gaps in terms of ensuring transparency and the number of financial items required (for declaration).
in writing. ‒ the we have voted on the report on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas operations. the proposals in this report do not only affect economic activities but are also intended to support the environmental needs of the european periphery. operations related to oil and gas production have a significant economic impact and a high environmental risk. it is obvious that we must have some rules to protect the environment, citizens and companies that are located close to offshore oil and gas operations. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ the the directive does not regulate civil liability for damage in its entirety, whether it concerns natural or legal persons, whether it concerns bodily injury, material damage or financial loss, net or consequential. the criminal liability for offshore accidents, possible fines or other non-custodial penalties are also not regulated.
in writing. i am voting against the report, as the directive does not regulate civil liability for damage in its entirety, whether it concerns natural or legal persons, whether it is physical injury, material damage or financial loss, net or incidental. the criminal liability for offshore accidents, possible fines or other non-custodial penalties are also not regulated.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on liability, compensation and financial security of offshore oil and gas operations for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 30/11/2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the directive does not regulate civil liability for damage in its entirety, whether it concerns natural or legal persons, whether it concerns bodily injury, material damage or financial loss, net or consequential. the criminal liability for offshore accidents, possible fines or other non-custodial penalties are also not regulated.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo calls for a series of actions by the european union to put pressure on the leadership of that country. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. therefore, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against because we do not accept the union's interference in the internal affairs of third countries. in the case of the congo in particular, with western companies making millions from the truly unacceptable situation there, we cannot help but recall that the origins of these problems in the country have their roots in belgian "humanitarian intervention" decades ago.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo, as i do not accept the union's interference in the internal affairs of third countries. in the case of the congo in particular, with western companies making millions from the truly unacceptable situation there, i cannot help but recall that the origins of these problems in the country have their roots in the belgian 'humanitarian intervention' decades ago.
in writing. ‒ i support the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 1/12/2016, and because this joint motion for a resolution is well-founded.
in writing. ‒ we do not accept the union's interference in the internal affairs of third countries. in the case of the congo in particular, with western companies making millions from the truly unacceptable situation there, we cannot help but recall that the origins of these problems in the country have their roots in belgian "humanitarian intervention" decades ago.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against because the union should first deal with the ever-growing energy shortage within the member states and not intervene directly in the planning of third countries, especially when these interventions are concealing neo-colonial logic and policies. the only proposal we could accept would be to ban trade with countries which do not meet the environmental criteria.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on access to energy in developing countries, because the union should first deal with the ever-increasing energy shortage within the member states and not intervene directly in the planning of third countries, especially when these interventions are concealed by neo-colonial logic and policies. the only proposal we could accept would be to ban trade with countries which do not meet the environmental criteria.
in writing. ‒ sustainable access to affordable, reliable and safe energy is crucial for the satisfaction of basic human needs and rights, including access to clean water, sanitation, safe and secure environment. the resolution, calls on the eu to include a gender dimension on all its energy policies focusing on women particular needs. it also calls for the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies. however, even if the resolution includes very positive language on sustainability and on gender issue i voted abstention since i do not believe that the access to energy in developing countries could be resolved through an eu-africa partnership.
in writing. ‒ referring to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 24/11/2016, i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on access to energy in developing countries because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the union should first address the ever-growing energy shortage within the member states and not intervene directly in the planning of third countries, especially when these interventions are concealed by neo-colonial logic and policies. the only proposal we could accept would be to ban trade with countries which do not meet the environmental criteria.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the use of the european order for payment procedure is part of a wider effort to streamline and intensify cooperation between member states in the area of justice and the protection of citizens. as the report highlights both advantages and disadvantages of the european order for payment procedure, i believe that it helps to minimise the problems and therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the european order for payment is optional, which means that it is available in cross-border cases as an alternative to the various equivalent national procedures. the payment order may be requested by post or, often, by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and is enforceable without further formalities in other member states. the existence of two different legal systems for dealing with a single offence would create legal uncertainty and would attempt to deprive the member states' judicial systems of matters falling within their exclusive competence.
in writing. ‒ the the european order for payment is optional, which means that it is available in cross-border cases as an alternative to the various equivalent national procedures. the payment order may be requested by post or, often, by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and is enforceable without further formalities in other member states. the existence of two different legislative frameworks for dealing with a single infringement will create legal uncertainty and will attempt to wean the member states' judicial systems from matters falling within their exclusive competence, which is why i am voting against the report on the use of the european order for payment procedure.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the use of the european order for payment procedure because it is well documented.
in writing. ‒ the the european order for payment is optional, which means that it is available in cross-border cases as an alternative to the various equivalent national procedures. the payment order may be requested by post or, often, by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and is enforceable without further formalities in other member states. the existence of two different legal systems for dealing with a single offence would create legal uncertainty and would attempt to deprive the member states' judicial systems of matters falling within their exclusive competence.
the commission mr president, the problem is not just where the seats are marked. i have put my card in at the moment and it also has the name of another colleague on it, so it is a matter of putting the card in, which we can put in any place, but it does not show our name, but there is also a problem with voting.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not subject to the same restrictions as the other railways. the debate shows that social tariffs, support for regional railways are being abolished. there is no full public service obligation. there is a question of support for workers' labour rights. there are huge concerns about the safety of the railways themselves. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in greece the memorandum has dissolved the hellenic railways organisation. we have staff shortages, huge problems with the rolling stock, the sale of the trenose for a license plate: 45 million euros to the italian state railways. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not subject to the same restrictions as the railways in the community.
the commission the problem with regulation 1192 and with rail transport regulations in general is not whether member states can pay any compensation to railway undertakings. the main objective of the regulation should be to ensure a level playing field and to protect the undertakings which contribute to the national economies of the member states. for example, there was no concern for railway companies when illegal immigrants decided to disrupt rail transport at the greek-scopanian and greek-bulgarian borders, causing huge losses to railway and transport companies. this requires strong national government involvement in conjunction with the private sector and the implementation of a social policy for workers, with particular emphasis on the provision of adequate wages and remunerative pensions. this should be a commitment to both domestic and cross-border and international rail transport, in the spirit of transnational cooperation and on the basis of the principle of free movement of persons and goods.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have referred to the 15 years of hard work for this legislation, and i will also refer to the last two and a half years, during which i have tried, as shadow rapporteur, to help bring about this legislation on the free organisation of port services, which undoubtedly enhances transparency in the financing of ports and high-quality services. it is important that we have worked hard to reach a substantive agreement with the council. it should be clarified that this legislation does not impose a specific model of service management, because the port authorities remain independent, and thus competition is enhanced. the arrangements provide for the limitation of the number of service providers, the possibility of a public service and provisions providing for small ports to control the avoidance of disproportionate administrative burdens and additional costs. the new regulation also provides for a level playing field, specific rules on transparency and legal certainty and a stable legal framework, free from disproportionate and contradictory interpretations, thus encouraging investment. i would like to make a special mention of my country, greece, which has a long maritime tradition. my country can benefit from this framework because this new system of rules, which includes twenty-five ports, enhances the efficiency of port services, creates an attractive environment for investment and, above all, contributes to the economic development that my country so badly needs today. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
ppe), answer to a question with a blue card. i would like to say to you, mr president, that the text has also made the greatest possible effort on the specific issue you are referring to, because ensuring a legislative framework which does not allow for different interpretations also ensures education, so that those who are involved in the provision of services can really ensure an environment which investors would find attractive, so that they can contribute to the economy where this legislative framework is concerned.
the commission the european union is always finding ways, using fine words and expressions, to conceal the real purpose of its actions. the report in question could not be an exception. you are once again trying to control the economic and commercial activities of the member states, with the ultimate aim of serving specific economic interests with which some may have perfect relations. as regards workers, it has been shown that in its recent history the union has systematically undermined their rights and gains by wrong actions and decisions. the ports of europe belong to the states of europe, and they alone should control their use. the reasons are many and not only economic, especially as regards greece. we must not forget that port management is first and foremost a matter of national security, much more so when your neighbor is the insane erdogan. finally, we have seen from the privatisation of the port of piraeus where neoliberal practices are leading and what future they hold for workers: only uncertainty poverty and despair.
the commission mr president, port activities contribute directly to employment, to attracting investment, to gdp growth, so it is important to have transparency in the financial relations between public authorities, port authorities and port service providers, so as to create a level playing field and of course attract investment. however, transparency in port activities should not be the sole objective of the union. there should be an increase in the european union's financial expenditure to support ports and maritime transport. at the same time, in particular in greece, the sale of strategic infrastructure should be stopped instead of a billboard, as in the case of the sale of the port of piraeus to cosco, the launching of the sale of the port of thessaloniki organisation and other ports. at the moment all the infrastructure in greece is being sold off in exchange for a license plate. it's true for airports, it's true for ports, it's true for railroads. this unacceptable situation cannot continue in my country.
the commission mr president, as fish stocks have been declining and technology has advanced, fishing has expanded rapidly and uncontrollably to greater depths. deep-sea ecosystems and species are negatively affected, as most of them are considered to be particularly vulnerable to the impacts of fishing. deep-water species grow slowly, live long, have a low fertility rate and reproduce relatively late in their life cycle. the practice of bottom trawling, used to catch these species particularly in the north-east atlantic, is now recognised by the scientific community as being particularly harmful to these species. the european union must therefore minimise the environmental impact of fishing, while ensuring the sustainable exploitation of deep waters. at the global level, it is estimated that 31% of fish stocks are overfished and that illegal and unregulated fishing now amounts to 26 million tonnes a year, worth a total of 23 billion euros. this situation must be stopped.
gue/ngl). protecting fundamental rights in europe - i know. for all the citizens of europe? no, of course not! the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the memoranda are not subject to eu law and in this sense the european charter of fundamental rights cannot be invoked in greece. the european parliament, on the other hand, monitors the implementation of the programme. that's great! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but ignore for a moment that i am greek and i am talking about my country! tell me, which of the most basic of fundamental rights have we achieved as europe to be universal, inviolable and non-negotiable? the right to work? count the unemployed! child protection ? count the malnourished and the excluded from basic education! health protection ? count the medication and medical excluded! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, the european union, instead of trying to eliminate the violation of fundamental rights in european countries such as my country, greece, and its victims are european citizens, is trying to integrate into european societies illegal immigrants and refugees who have no respect for these fundamental rights and, in order to achieve this, blackmails, persecutes and considers european citizens who react to this development as xenophobic, racist, hateful. but how is it possible to integrate into european societies all those i mentioned above, the illegal immigrants who do not want to join, who come from other religious, cultural and ethnic and religious entities? these people are behaving as sovereigns and want to impose islamic law on greece and all of europe.
the commission madam president, the cultural and creative sectors at european union level provide more than 12 million full-time jobs, which is equivalent to approximately 7.5% of the union's workforce. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the european union must therefore focus on countries like greece, where the cultural, innovation and research sectors are suffering because of the policies of the memoranda, because of austerity, because the funds for these sectors are now being reduced. we also call on the commission to increase funding for union programmes such as erasmus+, cosme, to support even more projects to develop culture, creativity, and to boost innovation and development.
the commission madam president, thousands of women are victims of physical and psychological violence in the eastern partnership countries with little protection from the law and almost no support services. there is a significant lack of criminalisation of all forms of violence against women, an extremely low level of reporting of these crimes, few convictions for rape and little or no funding for support services. it is estimated that in the european union there are two hundred and seventy thousand women who are victims of trafficking networks, most of them from the eastern partnership countries. in the case of moldova, two out of three women are unemployed and between 200,000 and 400,000 have been sold to brothels abroad. this is 10% of the female population in the country according to publications. the fight against violence against women must therefore be a major issue for the european union to tackle this problem in the eastern partnership countries.
the commission madam president, the syriza-anel government has been sucking the candy of the so-called debt reduction for months. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. wages and pensions were cut, public assets were mortgaged in favor of the creditors for 100 years, all on the altar of supposed debt relief. but the eurogroup of 5 december did not finally proceed with the reduction of the debt, and the half-measures for the supposedly short-term debt adjustment are ashes in the eye, since the debt is not only not being reduced but the adjustments are accompanied by new harsh measures. madam president, greece's public debt is a cabinet of odious debt, created by loans that did not benefit the people and greece but were made to serve the interests of the creditors, to pay off old debts, to finance the purchase of industrial equipment and weapons by the creditors and, finally, to finance the purchase of industrial products by the creditors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the debt is paid off.
the commission madam president, fierce competition for energy is giving rise to wars, refugees and misery, while the culprits (the european union, the united states and governments) are pretending to be concerned about the very real dangers of climate change! they cheat. clean energy and green growth is the cloak of leveraging capital accumulated in guaranteed maximum profit investments, subsidized by billions from the european union and the governments that pay the people with the most expensive electricity. in a privatised energy-commodity energy union, which includes the syriza-anel government in greece, the energy poverty of the people is increasing, while prices for industrialists are falling. the decisions of conferences such as paris have not prevented thirst, famine, epidemics, natural disasters, the effects of imperialist wars. the conflict between the interests of the people and a system that kills people and the environment for profit is growing. only the socialisation of wealth and natural resources, central planning to meet the needs of the people can ensure cheap energy for all, balanced development of man and the environment.
the commission mr president, the liberalisation of the energy market in the european union must be accompanied by stricter safety requirements, particularly in view of the frequent accidents that occur with the supply of natural gas. mr vice-president, mr šefčovič, the commission should check the safety regulations for the installations supplying natural gas from the network of suppliers to households, apartment blocks and apartments in the various member states of the union. the union must also develop renewable energy sources, strengthening the energy policy of the member states while taking measures to combat energy poverty. in greece, because of merkel's austerity and memoranda, 70% of households are unable to keep their homes warm because of excessive taxation on heating oil. the commission has, however, recognised that greece can reduce the tax rates on heating oil. so why isn't the greek government doing it? why does he let the greek people freeze?
the commission the amendment of the rules of procedure is a very important step, mr president, because it will ensure that parliament functions properly. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we are all very proud of. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but how can a member of the european parliament raise issues and get answers on serious issues affecting his country, and even his voters? the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. who and by what criteria will judge this thing? in fact, this is an attempt to silence the opposing voices, because unfortunately many, many of you are not used to hearing these opposing voices.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, i would like to protest, along with other members, that it is unacceptable to restrict the parliamentary activity of members, the main aspect of which is the submission of questions. we ask questions to raise issues, to check the commission, to say what is happening in our countries, to express the concerns of the citizens. so limiting the number of questions is unacceptable. secondly, there is a system in parliament which checks the alleged correctness of our questions and forbids us to put them. i have just received a message from the services saying 'we would suggest that you re-draft your actual question', which means they do not like the questions we are asking. we shall be asking the questions, and if there is no competence for questions, the commission will say so, not parliament's services. we cannot be under the control of the parliament's services. we have to exercise our rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people's republic of algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the people's republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people's republic of algeria in union programmes, since the european neighbourhood policy aims at the gradual opening-up of union programmes to neighbouring countries such as algeria, with a view to reforming and modernising the union.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation on the framework agreement between the european union and the people's republic of algeria and on the general principles governing the participation of the people's republic of algeria in union programmes. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of a framework agreement between the eu and the people's republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes is hereby authorised. the eu is once again attempting to intervene in the internal affairs of a third country in return for a trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the eu-algeria framework agreement on the general principles for algeria's participation in union programmes, as it is another attempt to involve the eu in the internal affairs of a third country in exchange for a trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ the premise of the european neighbourhood policy is that the eu has a vital interest in building a much stronger and deeper relationship to its neighbours. this is why i voted in favour of this report as i believe that algeria should be allowed to participate in the programmes of the union, as well as contribute financially to the general budget, corresponding to the specific programmes in which algeria participates.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people's republic of algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the people's republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people's republic of algeria in union programmes, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states, while respecting their national and economic interests.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the proposal to reject the recommendation on the introduction of special conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic. i think that the recommendation contains positive elements which are beneficial for the environment and for the economic activities linked to fishing, and i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the the text proposed by the commission is the recommendation for second reading and concerns the european union's intention to clarify in which area of the north-east atlantic deep-sea fishing will be allowed. this geographical limit will apply to vessels whose total catch of deep-sea species in at least one fishing trip per year is more than 8%. member states will be asked to provide information on the geographical location of vulnerable ecosystems (impact assessments), and the commission will assess this information annually and adjust the allowable fishing area accordingly. the efdd amendment rejects this proposal. however, it is considered that it was submitted purely in the interests of the united kingdom and not for the protection of the fishery.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic and repealing regulation (ec) no 2347/2002, as i am not satisfied with what it says. member states will be asked to provide information on the geographical location of vulnerable ecosystems (impact assessments), and the commission will assess this information on an annual basis and adjust the allowable fishing area accordingly. the efdd amendment rejects this proposal. however, it is considered that it was submitted purely in the interests of the united kingdom and not for the protection of the fishery.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since we need to protect vulnerable deep-sea species and ecosystems from the harmful impact of bottom-fishing. as the current management regime of deep-sea fishing has led to the depletion of many deep-sea ecosystems, i consider reforming the regime and setting more specific conditions to be a necessary action.
in writing. ‒ absent from the vote on the amendment on the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic and repealing regulation (ec) no 2347/2002, as this recommendation for second reading is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the eu must seek to protect vulnerable deep-sea marine ecosystems effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general revision of parliament's rules of procedure because i believe that the new rules will make the european parliament a more transparent, efficient, open and ready to listen to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the general revision of parliament's rules of procedure. although it is generally accepted that we need to revise and improve parliament's rules of procedure, i consider that this report is an attempt to adopt conservative and restrictive rules which will work against freedom of speech and the ability of members to act, and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the the revised regulation, as proposed in the report to be voted on, will deal a decisive blow both to the independence of members in the exercise of their duties and to the excessive limitation of the national (if any) jurisdiction of the judicial/tax authorities in the process of auditing these financial data. the vote in favour of this text will lead to an uncontrollable restriction of the members' possibilities of action, making their role a loudly decorative one.
in writing. ‒ the the revised regulation will deal a major blow to both the independence of members in the exercise of their duties and the excessive limitation of the national (if any) jurisdiction of the judicial/tax authorities in the process of auditing these financial elements. the vote on this text will lead to an uncontrollable restriction of the members' possibilities of action by making their role soundly decorative, which is why i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the general revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 13/12/2016, and because it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. the already deeply reactionary regulation is made more reactionary by its revision, which strengthens the structure and mechanism for promoting the eu's anti-people policy. it aims to facilitate the political forces of capital in their anti-people movements and compromises behind closed doors to avoid popular reactions in conditions of intensified monopoly competition. it aims to control even more closely the composition of parliamentary committees, to restrict the right of speech and the possibility for members to intervene (e.g. limiting questions, oral explanations of vote, eliminating the possibility of debating an unanswered question in plenary). the new regulation, even more than the previous one, serves the aims of the political forces defending the capitalist system and those within it who deceive the peoples with illusions of a supposedly pro-people management, trying in every case to silence the voice of the communists who expose capitalist barbarity and call for its overthrow. this is the 'parliamentary democracy' of capital that the bourgeoisie and its political representatives advertise. the people can, by their struggle, put their stamp on developments, challenging the domination of the monopolies and claiming the economic and political power that will serve their interests.
in writing. ‒ the the revised regulation, as proposed in the report to be voted on, will deal a decisive blow both to the independence of members in the exercise of their duties and to the excessive limitation of the national (if any) jurisdiction of the judicial/tax authorities in the process of auditing these financial data. the vote on this text will lead to an excessive restriction of the members' powers of action, making their role a loudly decorative one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015 because i believe that we must constantly fight against all forms of discrimination against european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. this annual report is a positive effort to highlight issues affecting millions of european citizens, to raise awareness among relevant stakeholders and to find solutions. i think it contains positive elements, especially after the vote in favour of our amendment on social rights in the final procedure in the ep plenary, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ fundamental rights, human dignity, the rule of law, freedom and security must not be the domain of political decadence, sociality and human sensitivity.
in writing. ‒ fundamental rights, human dignity, the rule of law, freedom and security must not be the domain of political decadence, auctioning of sociality and human sensitivity, which is why i am voting against report a8-0345/2016 on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as many of the amendments of the gue/ngl group have been included in this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union and it includes many positive elements, which i strongly support, such as the possibility of setting up a whistleblower protection scheme or the urgent call for an effective anti-corruption strategy.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 12/12/2016, and because it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. the report is a provocative hypocrisy. the eu selectively uses the protection of human rights as a pretext to justify its anti-people policy and that of the bourgeois governments of its member states and to legitimize their imperialist interventions all over the world, in syria, in the wider region of the southern mediterranean and north africa, where eu-us-nato compete with other imperialist powers for control of the wealth-producing sources, the energy transport routes, for the exploitation of the peoples. under the convenient pretext of "fighting terrorism" they deliberately use the term "radicalization" in a distorted way, to discredit the struggle of the working people against the capitalist system. they are imposing anti-communist laws, persecuting the communist party and communist ideology in a number of eu countries, while at the same time awarding prizes and supporting the most reactionary forces, political descendants of the nazis, against peoples, as in ukraine. they aim to restrict people's freedoms, target the workers' and people's movement and intimidate. the political representatives of the monopolies challenge the people, posing as the "protector" of human rights, while taking the lead in crushing popular freedoms, suppressing trade union freedoms, enlarging the mechanisms of repression, demolishing workers' rights, spreading poverty, destitution and misery.
in writing. ‒ fundamental rights, human dignity, the rule of law, freedom and security must not be the domain of political decadence, sociality and human sensitivity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative sectors because i believe that measures should be taken to ensure that all parties involved are treated fairly in terms of remuneration.
in writing. ‒ the report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative sectors is a positive attempt to adopt a common position of the eu member states on cultural issues, aimed at protecting and promoting europe's creative forces. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the cultural sector has created jobs, leading to the creation of new business models aimed at digitising cultural heritage, completing the digital single market, modernising educational processes, and cultivating strong strategic links between culture policy and common and productive resources. we must therefore nurture, support, promote and defend culture, art and creativity.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries are those industries based on cultural values, individual creativity, skills and talent, with the potential to create wealth and jobs through the production of value from intellectual property. the cultural sector has created jobs, leading to the creation of new business models aimed at digitising cultural heritage, completing the digital single market, modernising educational processes and cultivating strong strategic links between culture policy and common and productive resources. we must therefore nurture, support, promote and defend culture, art and creativity. i therefore support the report and the proposals from the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on culture and education for a coherent eu policy on the cultural and creative sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since the report addresses the challenges that people working in the cci (cultural and creative industries) face on a daily basis. the report will be of great help to the authors, musicians, moviemakers, designers or game-programmers to keep doing their job and encourage young and creative talents to follow their dreams in cci by providing access to funding and social security.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative sectors for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 12/12/2016, and because it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. the eu's interest in the cultural and creative industries, beyond the pursuit of reproducing the dominant urban values, is also related to the fact that - especially in view of the difficulty of recovering from the crisis - they are a profit-making field for monopolies, the basic condition of which is the exploitation of workers in the sector. the report therefore welcomes the fact that there are many young and highly skilled people in informal employment and not only does it not propose improving working conditions, but on the contrary it stresses the need to increase their mobility so that capital can more easily find hardworking labour where and when it needs it. the report provocatively notes that creators need 'entrepreneurial spirit' to subordinate their creativity to profit, while its frequent references to the need to protect them actually concern the protection of the intellectual property of the business groups exploiting the product of their labour. the kke voted against, stressing that the only solution that meets the needs of the creator and the modern social needs for intellectual and cultural development is the abolition of capitalist ownership of the means of production and dissemination of art, so that the creator can be the true owner of his thought and art.
in writing. ‒ the the cips create wealth and jobs through the production of value from intellectual property. they account for 11.2% of private enterprises, 7.5% of the workforce and 5.3% of total european gnp. however, to realise the full potential of the sector, coordinated action is needed through a number of measures and policies such as promoting innovation, developing skills, improving access to finance, and gathering reliable statistics, based on an integrated definition. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a very important step towards the achievement of the objectives of the directive.
in writing. ‒ the eu must respect and promote the cultural heritage of each member state. it is hypocritical for it to claim to promote culture and creativity when it allows member states to illegally possess cultural and cultural goods in their museums from other member states of the union and from third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries because i believe that the european union should be more active in promoting gender equality issues through the various tools at its disposal in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. it is obvious that we must support any initiative aimed at protecting women's rights and equality. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the fight against violence against women, social discrimination and gender stereotypes remain major challenges for the eu and its eastern neighbourhood. this report does not aim to list shortcomings and weaknesses in relation to the protection of women's rights, but instead includes the active participation of women in trade unions, the integration of roma minors in education, endorses policies to combat all forms of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation by supporting lgbt people, and supports an even greater linkage of partner countries with eu bodies and programmes such as horizon 2020, creative europe, cosme and erasmus+. the report also calls for greater participation of women in peace negotiations and political transition processes.
in writing. ‒ the the fight against violence against women, social discrimination and gender stereotypes remain major challenges for the eu and its eastern neighbourhood. the report does not, however, aim to list the shortcomings and weaknesses in the protection of women's rights. instead, it includes the active participation of women in trade unions, the inclusion of roma minors in education, adopts policies to combat all forms of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation by supporting lgbt people, and supports an even greater linking of partner countries with eu bodies and programmes such as horizon 2020, creative europe, cosme and erasmus+. the report also calls for greater participation of women in peace negotiations and political transition processes. for these reasons, i am voting against the report and the proposals of the committee on women's rights and gender equality on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since we share the same values with our eastern european partners and therefore i am highly concerned when these values are not fully respected. unreported domestic violence, under-representation of women in political life, and persistence of gender stereotypes are cross-cutting issues in all eap states addressed in the present report.
in writing. ‒ referring to my speech to the european parliament plenary in strasbourg on 12/12/2016, i objected to the vote on the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries because the report is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. the resolution is being used as another tool of eu multifaceted pressure on eastern partnership countries in the framework of the so-called epc to promote the interests of the business groups served by the eu and the respective shares of the bourgeoisie in these countries. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for women and men, and for the establishment of a european network of information centres for women and men. the report defiantly assigns ngos and civil society organisations, including employers, to protect women's rights, while in the name of 'economic independence' it promotes 'women's entrepreneurship', 'social economy' and 'lending' as a way out of problems, silencing their class exploitation. it considers as an alleged 'promotion of their rights' the increase of their participation in administrative structures responsible for capitalist economic reforms, i.e. the promotion of anti-people anti-worker measures and their promotion to 'managerial positions'. the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of social policy, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission's proposals. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the the empowerment of women and their active participation in social, political and economic life is of key importance for the achievement of the eastern partnership objectives. in practice, however, social discrimination and gender stereotypes remain significant challenges, hindering women's greater integration into the labour market and political participation in these countries. in addition, they leave room for social acceptance of violence against women. the motion for a resolution does not aim to list the weaknesses but includes examples of best practice to be adopted and recommendations for the promotion of women's rights.
the commission the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i cannot give a more lenient description, at least in respect of the rapporteur's efforts. i have to justify the characterization, so that i am not accused for the umpteenth time as racist and populist. the report refers to freedom of thought, expression, conscience, belief and religion. but in greece and in europe, if you declare yourself a nationalist, you are called a fascist. you say you 're a christian ? you're accused of islamophobia. you want better conditions for your fellow countrymen? you're promoting racism. you mean a nation? you're not showing solidarity and you're being populist. the report talks about respect for democracy and elections. a terrible joke, considering the furious reactions of the european political elite, blaming the british for the referendum and brexit, the americans for the election of trump and citizens who support nationalist movements. a different interpretation of democracy or hypocrisy? the report also mentions the fight against discrimination. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat discrimination against ethnic minorities, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat discrimination against ethnic minorities. )
the commission mr president, the protection of human rights is inconceivable without the protection of the social and economic rights of citizens. three and a half years ago, together with other colleagues in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, we had the opportunity to vote on an important resolution which stated that austerity is a violation of human rights, and this is now a decisive factor; we see it everywhere. we see austerity hitting greece, hitting poor people all over the european union and in this way we have a flagrant violation of human rights. in addition, in greece there is another issue: the thousands of refugees who are stranded on the aegean islands are currently in a miserable situation. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. at the same time, the rights of the inhabitants of the aegean islands are being violated because these situations are there.
the commission madam president, it is a fact that the european union faces many challenges and threats. but if a common foreign and security policy is to be implemented, it must be one which meets the needs of the member states and not the wishes and ambitions of the european union's leadership. the two main threats facing the european union at the moment are terrorism and the invasion of illegal immigrants. but both have resulted from the european union's misguided interventions in internal conflicts in its neighbouring countries, often with the support of the wrong side. this must stop happening in the future. in order to control the flow of migrants, who are also bringing many terrorists to the european union, safe zones must be set up in the neighbouring countries of the country in crisis, hot spots must be set up there and help must be given to the refugees there. the european union's trade and agricultural policy towards third countries must not be directed against the interests of the inhabitants of the countries of the european union by creating unfair competition. the defence of the european union must continue to be based on nato, 22 of whose 28 countries are eu member states. the european union should not replace nato. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, countries which do not meet the copenhagen criteria and which create problems should not be invited to join the enlargement process.
the commission the report is a basis for the plans for new imperialist wars, for the profit plans of the european union monopolies. the white paper on defence, the european defence semester and its corresponding defence fund, the support for athena-type programmes for more operational forces are some of the means of promoting these european union projects, either independently or in addition to nato. the european defence union, the euro-army, the euro-strategion based on the european union's global strategy do not remove, on the contrary, confirm the sharpening fierce competitions within the european union and as a whole. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find a way to live in peace and security. the greek government is dragging our country into all this while provocatively being photographed and colored on the islands with goldfish, giving oil to the criminal nazi golden dawn. here and now, fight against the imperialist plans of the european union, nato and the united states and their governments, so that the peoples do not shed their blood for the interests of the monopolies!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, thank you for accepting my intervention. i have to say that i am not in favour of the idea of a european parliament, but i am in favour of the idea of a european parliament. am i to understand that you are against freedom of speech or not ?
the commission madam president, the european union as we know it is founded on the value of solidarity between its member states. the common foreign and security policy was established to protect all the countries of the union. the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and it is not surprising that the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism. in particular, mr erdogan is now questioning the treaty of lausanne, he is questioning greece's sovereign rights in the aegean islands, turkish fighter jets are violating greek airspace, they are exerting enormous pressure and the greek people do not see a satisfactory response from the european union to all this. the european union remains inactive. he doesn't really grit his teeth at the sultan. it does not tell him that he must pull together and that his challenges to greece are not going away. the european union has a duty to help turkey to make progress in the fight against terrorism, and we must not forget that the european union is also a major player in the fight against terrorism. it is a given that greece has the capacity to confront turkey, but it also needs the support of the european union. the community's solidarity must be demonstrated in action!
ecr), in writing. the eu is the world's largest importer and exporter of agri-food products. however, the potential for using cap rural development programmes to strengthen insurance, mutual funds and income stabilisation systems for farmers has not produced the desired results. in addition, the liberalisation of markets by the abolition of customs duties by third countries is creating problems for both agricultural production and european farmers. at the same time, the eu's refusal to lift sanctions against russia has hit farmers in the european south and beyond. in greece in particular, the problems in the rural world are exacerbated by the tax-sheltering policy imposed by the troika. the increase in the tax on petroleum products, the elimination of subsidies and the confiscation of the few subsidies by the government have led to a dead end for the farmers of my country. the austerity policy undermines investment, modernisation and discourages young people from entering the agricultural sector. finally, there is a need to strengthen the instruments to support agricultural incomes in areas affected by major natural disasters.
the commission mr president, one can expect nothing less from fascists. and before the summit, the slowdown in the international capitalist economy is having a profound effect on developments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this uncertainty applies to the european union and the eurozone. the difficulty of a controlled depreciation of over-accumulated capital, of states or banking groups, is an obstacle to recovery and objectively leads to the intensification of competition and the outbreak of new wars. these dead ends of the system are reinforcing forces of bourgeois nationalism, economic protectionism, revisionism of international agreements in the united states, britain, france, italy and elsewhere. this isn't about anti-systems. they work for other sections of the bourgeoisie. they too serve capitalist profits, as do the liberal neo-social democratic forces of the syriza type, cosmopolitan forces. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the solution lies in the organization and struggle of the workers with social alliance to recover the losses and overthrow the capitalist barbarity.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not surprised by this, because it is not unusual for the council to come up with nothing. i am not, of course, referring to some resolutions that will be adopted after the work is done, but to real, tangible results that will improve the lives of europeans, and in particular those who have been looking for years for prospects of a better life. the refugee and immigration issue will be discussed again and i really want to see what big mouths will be opened on this issue again. the european leaders will of course make new announcements again, regardless of the fact that turkey has reopened its slave-trading bases and the waves of illegal immigrants are increasing towards greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's enough! after eight years of crisis you are again discussing growth, youth unemployment, and at the same time you are imposing on greece prerequisites that do nothing but ensure the destruction of the country and its people. finally, as regards the union's external relations, you have not understood that the only reason why anyone agrees with the union is because of the billions it is distributing.
the commission madam president, mr juncker and mr korčok, at the beginning of the debate, expressed satisfaction with the situation of refugees in relation to greece. so it seems they have no idea what's going on, because right now there are at least 16,500 refugees and illegal immigrants trapped on the islands. the number of seats is only 7,500, and mr. avramopoulos knows it very well. this situation has led to conflicts between refugees. burn the hot spots. at the same time, the people of chios, lesvos, samos can't take it anymore. their social peace has been disturbed, tourism has been disrupted, their lives have been disrupted. this cannot go on. there must be immediate relocations from greece. secondly, mr avramopoulos, we cannot start with dublin iii, with the return of those who have left and gone to the hard core countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the eu.
the commission the european council will meet again tomorrow to discuss the same issues. but will decisions be taken that will help to solve the serious problems facing the european union? will it decide, for example, to suspend the accession negotiations with turkey so that mr erdogan will stop threatening and blackmailing europe with illegal immigrants, violating human rights in his own country and refusing to recognise the republic of cyprus? will any decision be taken to deal with youth unemployment, which in greece has reached an astronomical rate of 67%? young people do not want only training and instruction; they want work, so that they can show their qualifications and skills. the european leaders will discuss tomorrow again the need to increase the european union's military capabilities and economic issues, but i do not know whether they will discuss reducing the illegal and excessive debt they have imposed on greece or whether they will talk big about solidarity and cooperation. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission madam president, tomorrow the leaders will discuss the extension of the juncker investment plan, commissioner avramopoulos, which is indeed producing spectacular results in numbers. but in countries like our common home, greece, this success is not reflected in the real economy. of the 154 billion raised by the fc, 1.9 billion is in greece and more than 1 billion is in small and medium-sized enterprises. but small and mediumsized enterprises are not able to obtain financing, financing which, it seems, can no longer be obtained through banks, and there is a great need, an urgent need, to encourage financing platforms, even outside the existing banking system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. 46.5% of young greeks are unemployed. it's time to act. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report on the replacement of the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings. this is a purely technical matter, aimed at improving and modernising the structures of the european construction. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the commission examined whether poland's request was compatible with the requirements of the regulation and submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council to ensure that the scope of the recast regulation is aligned with the actual legal framework of the polish insolvency law by the time of its entry into force. in this context, the commission proposal is purely technical. it does not contain any amendment to the substance of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the the commission examined whether poland's request was compatible with the requirements of the regulation and submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council to ensure that the scope of the recast regulation is aligned with the actual legal framework of the polish insolvency law by the time of its entry into force. in this context, the commission proposal is purely technical. it does not contain any amendment to the substance of the regulation and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council replacing the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings, because it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the commission examined whether poland's request was compatible with the requirements of the regulation and submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council to ensure that the scope of the recast regulation is aligned with the actual legal framework of the polish insolvency law by the time of its entry into force. in this context, the commission proposal is purely technical. it does not contain any amendment to the substance of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textile products, given the expiry of the bilateral textile agreement, because uzbekistan has demonstrated in practice in recent years its willingness to continue cooperation with the eu.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the recommendation on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of uzbekistan in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textile products, given the expiry of the bilateral agreement on these products. the development of cooperation between the two sides is positive and legitimate. but since there are specific objections to the situation at work and the working conditions of uzbek citizens, i have decided to vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which will promote the development of the member states of the european union without prejudice to their national and economic interests.
in writing. ‒ i am dissatisfied with the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles. agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the member states of the european union without prejudice to their national and economic interests.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report by mrs maria arena, in which parliament was asked to give its consent to the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, extending the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement to bilateral trade in textile products. the ratification of the textiles protocol would entail the inclusion of textiles in the 1999 partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the eu and the country. therefore, the provisions laid down in the title 'trade in goods' of that agreement would also apply to textile products.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textile products, given the expiry of the bilateral agreement on textile products, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textile products, given the expiry of the bilateral textile agreement, because uzbekistan has demonstrated in practice in recent years its willingness to continue cooperation with the eu.
in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the report containing a proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of uzbekistan, in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textile products, given the expiry of the bilateral agreement on these products. the development of cooperation between the two sides is positive and legitimate. but since there are specific objections to the situation at work and the working conditions of uzbek citizens, i have decided to vote against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to extending the provisions of the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement to bilateral trade in textile products (resolution), as agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the member states of the european union without prejudice to their national and economic interests.
in writing. ‒ the fact that uzbekistan has started to cooperate with the international labour organisation ilo, reaching positive results in eradicating child labour, is showing that uzbekistan is setting the right indicators. nevertheless, ngos are reporting that the country still practice massive forced mobilisation of employees during the cotton harvest, as well as the interrogation and persecution of people who speak out about the working condition. i voted against this report since forced labour is still an issue in uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report containing a proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textile products, taking into account the expiry date of the bilateral agreement on textile products, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of ecuador, as i believe that the approval process should be accelerated so that ecuador can benefit from the free trade agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation on the conclusion of a protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, to take account of the accession of ecuador, is an attempt to further develop cooperation with third countries, which can benefit the citizens of both sides, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ once again, the eu is attempting to intervene in the internal affairs of a third country in exchange for a trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ once again, the eu is trying to intervene in the internal affairs of a third country in exchange for a trade agreement, which is why i am voting against the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement (accession of ecuador).
in writing. ‒ i voted against this trade agreement in the spirit of my consistent opposition to unfair trade deals. it is not going to contribute to the creation to the new jobs and overall prosperity of ecuador.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of ecuador, because it is sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ once again, the eu is attempting to intervene in the internal affairs of a third country in exchange for a trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden, as it ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the relevant laws and regulations.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden is a reasonable and legitimate attempt to find mutually acceptable solutions in the field of fisheries and trade, with the aim of cooperation between all parties concerned to the benefit of citizens, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the we oppose the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden, as the report stresses that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity and that in the case of norway any customs duties on food, including fishery products, from the eu must be in line with the agreement on the european economic area. the agreement on the european economic area, however, contains provisions on the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. the eu and two of its eea partners norway and iceland are also linked through a range of northern policies and through forums focusing on the fast-developing northern regions of europe and the arctic region as a whole. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures provided for in this decision are in conformity with the union's competition policy.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden, as the report stresses that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity and that in the case of norway any duties on food, including fishery products, by the eu must be in line with the agreement on the european economic area. the agreement on the european economic area, however, contains provisions on the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. the eu and two of its eea partners norway and iceland are also linked through a range of northern policies and through forums focusing on the fast-developing northern regions of europe and the arctic region as a whole. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures provided for in this decision are in conformity with the union's competition policy.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden, as it ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the relevant laws and regulations.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden contributes to the search for mutually acceptable solutions in the field of fisheries and trade, with a view to cooperation between all parties concerned to the benefit of citizens, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the we oppose the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden, as the report stresses that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity and that in the case of norway any customs duties on food, including fishery products, from the eu must be in line with the agreement on the european economic area. the agreement on the european economic area, however, contains provisions on the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. the eu and two of its eea partners norway and iceland are also linked through a range of northern policies and through forums focusing on the fast-developing northern regions of europe and the arctic region as a whole. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures provided for in this decision are in conformity with the union's competition policy.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden, as the report stresses that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity and that in the case of norway any duties on food, including fishery products, by the eu must be in line with the agreement on the european economic area. the agreement on the european economic area, however, contains provisions on the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. the eu and two of its eea partners norway and iceland are also linked through a range of northern policies and through forums focusing on the fast-developing northern regions of europe and the arctic region as a whole. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures provided for in this decision are in conformity with the union's competition policy.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report containing a proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol, as it represents an important development in the field of the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the approval of the conclusion by europol of the operational and strategic cooperation agreement with georgia. in spite of the obvious need for deeper cooperation with all the states of the wider european union in order to strengthen security conditions, i believe that we must focus particularly on issues of personal data protection and respect for individual freedoms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ the the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not inform each other. the agreement does not effectively enhance the risk-based approach nor does it ensure the obligation of design and default data protection, taking into account international practice but in particular the degree of protection of personal data by the georgian authorities.
in writing. ‒ the the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not inform each other. the agreement does not effectively enhance the risk-based approach nor does it ensure the obligation of design and default data protection, taking into account international practice but in particular the degree of protection of personal data by the georgian authorities. for these reasons, i am voting against the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because, according to europol, georgia is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, in particular because it is a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and an important partner in the fight against organised crime groups from georgia. in this respect, the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia will help and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which is by definition international.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia since i find disturbing the fact that the council and europol are trying to push through these undemocratic agreements without taking into consideration that new and more transparent europol regulation is going to enter into force next year.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol, because it is sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the the act demonstrates that commitments in the areas of intelligence sharing are subject either to personal will or to national security credentials, with the recent example of the paris and brussels terrorists, where the intelligence services of member states did not inform each other. the agreement does not effectively enhance the risk-based approach nor does it ensure the obligation of design and default data protection, taking into account international practice but in particular the degree of protection of personal data by the georgian authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from spain, as it is of major importance to provide assistance to beneficiaries made redundant in order to reintegrate them into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from spain confirms the fund's role in an environment of continuing economic pressures and restructuring that threaten workers on a pan-european scale. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies, because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address this situation.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies, because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address this situation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from spain egf/2016/004 es/comunidad valenciana automotive industry, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be allocated, in principle, to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies, because this creates skilled unemployed and does not address this situation
in writing. ‒ we voted against the proposal to reject the recommendation to repeal council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the settlement of accounts of railway undertakings. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. ‒ the amendment to this regulation does not include provisions for the benefit of workers concerning the operation of railway undertakings and the employment of staff in them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the amendment to this regulation, as it does not contain any provisions for the benefit of workers concerning the operation of railway undertakings and the employment of staff in them.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the amendment on the recommendation for second reading concerning the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the settlement of the accounts of railway undertakings, for the reasons i explained in detail to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 12/12/2016.
in writing. the kke voted against the three regulations on the single european railway area, rail passenger transport and railway company accounts, which constitute the so-called 'fourth railway package' for the single railway market and complete the full privatisation of rail transport in the eu and the member states. the handing over of the railways, all related public infrastructure and networks and the transport project to the large business groups serves the further profitability of the business groups. it deals a further serious blow to the working conditions and labour rights of railway workers. it is a serious deterioration in the quality and safety of rail transport, and it has raised the price of tickets for the common man's family. the interests of capital are also served by the syriza-anel coalition government by granting to private individuals of trainose, within the framework of its overall anti-people policy, the 3rd and previous memoranda, drawn up together with the eu and the imf and with the agreement of the other parties of the bourgeois administration. in order to make railways and transport in general, land, sea and air, the property of the people, at the service of the people's needs, the workers' struggle must target the power of the monopolies themselves, their imperialist union, the eu, for radical changes in power and the economy.
in writing. ‒ the amendment to this regulation does not include provisions for the benefit of workers concerning the operation of railway undertakings and the employment of staff in them.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the proposal to reject the recommendation to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 on the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport by rail. i believe that the exclusive focus on economic indicators and profits is not in the interests of european citizens and that is why i voted against the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the this proposal requires the competent authorities to ensure that the public service obligations specification and the corresponding compensation for the net economic effect of the public service obligations will achieve the public transport policy objectives in a cost-effective manner. moreover, the level of compensation should ensure the economic viability of the provision of public passenger transport, in line with the requirements laid down in the public transport policy over time. the member states are thus not given the option of deciding whether to provide public goods, even on economically unreasonable terms, to their citizens as part of their social policy.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against this proposal, as it requires the competent authorities to ensure that the public service obligations specification and the corresponding compensation for the net economic effect of the public service obligations will achieve the objectives of public transport policy in a cost-effective manner. moreover, the level of compensation should ensure the economic viability of the provision of public passenger transport, in line with the requirements laid down in the public transport policy over time. the member states are thus not given the option of deciding whether to provide public goods, even on economically unreasonable terms, to their citizens as part of their social policy.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the amendment, which is a joint proposal of the greens, the efdd and the gue, on the recommendation for the second reading concerning the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 on the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail, for the reasons i explained in detail at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 12/12/2016, and because, by this amendment, parliament rejects the council's position at first reading.
in writing. the kke voted against the three regulations on the single european railway area, rail passenger transport and railway company accounts, which constitute the so-called 'fourth railway package' for the single railway market and complete the full privatisation of rail transport in the eu and the member states. the handing over of the railways, all related public infrastructure and networks and the transport project to the large business groups serves the further profitability of the business groups. it deals a further serious blow to the working conditions and labour rights of railway workers. it is a serious deterioration in the quality and safety of rail transport, and it has raised the price of tickets for the common man's family. the interests of capital are also served by the syriza-anel coalition government by granting to private individuals of trainose, within the framework of its overall anti-people policy, the 3rd and previous memoranda, drawn up together with the eu and the imf and with the agreement of the other parties of the bourgeois administration. in order to make railways and transport in general, land, sea and air, the property of the people, at the service of the people's needs, the workers' struggle must target the power of the monopolies themselves, their imperialist union, the eu, for radical changes in power and the economy.
in writing. ‒ the this proposal requires the competent authorities to ensure that the public service obligations specification and the corresponding compensation for the net economic effect of the public service obligations will achieve the public transport policy objectives in a cost-effective manner. moreover, the level of compensation should ensure the economic viability of the provision of public passenger transport, in line with the requirements laid down in the public transport policy over time. the member states are thus not given the option of deciding whether to provide public goods, even on economically unreasonable terms, to their citizens as part of their social policy.
in writing. ‒ the we voted on the proposal to reject the recommendation to amend directive 2012/34/eu as regards the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail and the governance of rail infrastructure. i believe that the exclusive focus on economic indicators and profits is not in the interests of european citizens and that is why i voted against the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the this proposal requires the competent authorities to ensure that the public service obligations specification and the corresponding compensation for the net economic effect of the public service obligations will achieve the public transport policy objectives in a cost-effective manner. moreover, the level of compensation should ensure the economic viability of the provision of public passenger transport, in line with the requirements laid down in the public transport policy over time. the member states are thus not given the option of deciding whether to provide public goods, even on economically unreasonable terms, to their citizens as part of their social policy.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to this proposal as it requires the competent authorities to ensure that the specifications of public service obligations and the corresponding compensation for the net economic effect of public service obligations will achieve the objectives of public transport policy in a cost-effective manner. moreover, the level of compensation should ensure the economic viability of the provision of public passenger transport, in line with the requirements laid down in the public transport policy over time. the member states are thus not given the option of deciding whether to provide public goods, even on economically unreasonable terms, to their citizens as part of their social policy.
in writing. ‒ i don’t support the opening of a single european railway area, which the european commission aims to achieve with the fourth railway package. moreover, the report fails to provide the required level of social protection and the expected quality and performance standards. this is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the amendment, which is a joint proposal of the greens, the efdd and the gue, on the recommendation for second reading concerning the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2012/34/eu on the opening of the internal market for rail passenger transport services and on railway governance, for the reasons i explained in detail at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 12/12/2016, and because, by this amendment, parliament rejects the council's position at first reading.
in writing. the kke voted against the three regulations on the single european railway area, rail passenger transport and railway company accounts, which constitute the so-called 'fourth railway package' for the single railway market and complete the full privatisation of rail transport in the eu and the member states. the handing over of the railways, all related public infrastructure and networks and the transport project to the large business groups serves the further profitability of the business groups. it deals a further serious blow to the working conditions and labour rights of railway workers. it is a serious deterioration in the quality and safety of rail transport, and it has raised the price of tickets for the common man's family. the interests of capital are also served by the syriza-anel coalition government by granting to private individuals of trainose, within the framework of its overall anti-people policy, the 3rd and previous memoranda, drawn up together with the eu and the imf and with the agreement of the other parties of the bourgeois administration. in order to make railways and transport in general, land, sea and air, the property of the people, at the service of the people's needs, the workers' struggle must target the power of the monopolies themselves, their imperialist union, the eu, for radical changes in power and the economy.
in writing. ‒ the this proposal requires the competent authorities to ensure that the public service obligations specification and the corresponding compensation for the net economic effect of the public service obligations will achieve the public transport policy objectives in a cost-effective manner. moreover, the level of compensation should ensure the economic viability of the provision of public passenger transport, in line with the requirements laid down in the public transport policy over time. the member states are thus not given the option of deciding whether to provide public goods, even on economically unreasonable terms, to their citizens as part of their social policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency in ports, because it refers to the need for the port managing body to be autonomous in order to act in accordance with its economic strategy, while respecting certain basic principles.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency in ports will bring positive changes to the current framework, as it aims at even more transparency. i think that is a positive thing for the member states of the european union and for the european citizens, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we strongly believe that the management of ports is a matter of the highest national security and belongs exclusively to the states of europe, which should be biased and control their exploitation. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a framework for access to the market for port services and financial transparency in ports is therefore rejected.
in writing. ‒ the the controls that the european union wants to impose on the economic and commercial activities of ports are creating more problems in terms of safety, workers' rights and the development of its member states. the management of ports belongs to the states of europe and they alone should control their use and information on their activity, thus safeguarding their economy and national security. it is well known that the neoliberal practices of the member states in recent years have led to the privatisation of ports, which has resulted in financial control, the restriction of commercial activities by the states and the systematic undermining of workers' rights. i am firmly of the view that the management of ports is a matter of the highest national security and is the exclusive responsibility of the european states, which should be able to monitor and control their use. for these reasons, i am voting against the report by the committee on transport and tourism on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for access to the market for port services and for financial transparency in ports.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency in ports, for the reasons i explained in detail at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 12/12/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. the kke voted against the regulation on market access for port services, as agreed with the council, because it leads to the complete liberalisation of port services, i.e. their handing over, together with the ports themselves and their infrastructure, to the monopoly groups. the implementation of the regulation will also affect workers' rights, such as sectoral collective agreements, by worsening working conditions and pay, intensification, etc. the ports and their services, whether in various forms of direct delivery to capital or through the exploitation of the bourgeois state, serve the profits of the monopolies, at the expense of the workers, the people as a whole. true to this, the "community acquis", the syriza-anel coalition government is handing over ports, infrastructure and services to business groups, serving the strategic objective of the local bourgeoisie, to upgrade its geopolitical role in the region. that is why syriza voted in favour of the regulation together with its partners in the memoranda, nd, pasok and potami, the people's party, the liberals and the social democrats. the ports and infrastructure of the country can become the property of the people in the service of social needs, when the working people are freed from the domination of the monopolies and their associations, taking power and the economy into their own hands.
in writing. ‒ the controls on the economic and commercial activities of ports that the european union wants to impose create more problems in terms of safety, workers' rights and the development of its member states. the management of ports belongs to the states of europe and they alone should control their use and information on their activity, thus safeguarding their economy and national security.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the european court of auditors, as we consider that his professional experience in public finance, i.e. in areas such as budget planning, budget execution or management, budgetary control or audit, is not sufficient to fulfil his duties and the requirements applicable to members of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the european court of auditors, as we consider that his professional experience in public finance, i.e. in areas such as budget planning, budget execution or management, budgetary control or audit, is not sufficient to fulfil his duties and the requirements applicable to members of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the content of my vote is not disclosed, as it was a secret ballot in accordance with rule 182 (1).
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the approval of the research fund for coal and steel research programme and on the multiannual technical guidelines for the programme. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the the proposal was published only a few weeks ago, before the commission published updated horizontal rules on this subject, which means that a further update will be needed, so the present report put to the vote is already out of date. in addition, facilitating access to financing from two funds for businesses is not necessarily considered to be beneficial.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel, as i do not agree with the purpose of this proposal to amend the legal basis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mr buzek. the purpose of this proposal is to amend the legal basis following the periodic review of its management rules in order to achieve the following objectives: facilitate access to funding through simplified rules and proportional alignment with the rules of the general research programme 'horizon 2020' with which the actors in the coal and steel sectors are familiar. the proposed amendments to the ten-t focus on the rules for the management of the ten-t programme (chapter iii) and align, as far as possible, the procedures and concepts used for the 'horizon 2020' programme, in order to facilitate the participation of the same beneficiaries in both programmes (ten-t and horizon 2020). ensure that the programme is managed by the commission with due transparency and in accordance with the commission's rules on expert groups. this includes updating the relevant provisions referred to in the legal basis, in particular those relating to comitology.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since our amendments modified the council decision as a useful way of addressing the challenges that the european steel and coal industries currently are facing. the report stresses the legacy of cooperation in the area of coal and steel which should inspire member states to act in a spirit of solidarity so as to respond to the current crises.
in writing. ‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision 2008/376/ec approving the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and on the multiannual technical guidelines for the programme, because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the the purpose of the proposal to amend council decision 2008/376/ec on the approval of the tiah research programme is to facilitate access to and management of funding with due transparency. since the proposal was published a few weeks before the commission adopted updated horizontal rules on the functioning of the groups of experts and while the european parliament is preparing a resolution to form its position on the latest commission update, care has been taken to ensure that the amendments introduced are consistent with the forthcoming resolution and do not prejudge its outcome.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is out of date, as it does not take into account important new information which may have important implications for the future.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter in 2015. although the general objective of the report is positive and in the interests of citizens, i believe that there are references to issues of security and restrictions on citizens' rights which are wrong, and that is why i have decided to withdraw.
in writing. ‒ the report attempts to legislate for the protection of the rights of illegal immigrants, with adverse effects both on the internal balance of the host countries and on the possibility of using the mechanism for their return, a possibility which is hereby attempted to be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area in 2015, as it attempts to legislate to guarantee the rights of illegal immigrants with adverse effects both on the internal balance of the host countries and on the possibility of using the mechanism for their return, a possibility which is being attempted to eliminate by this.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the 2015 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the subject, for the reasons i explained in detail at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 13/12/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. the report voted against by the european communities group expresses the extent to which the eu is intervening in the interests of the european business groups it serves - which it defiantly calls 'responsibility for protection' - under the pretext of human rights and democracy. the report is revealing about the eu's supposed sensitivity: on the one hand, it 'seeks to promote european military integration in order to improve the readiness and flexibility of the european armed forces', the bloodshed of the peoples that brings refugees, poverty and misery, and on the other hand, it reserves for the refugees and migrants who are uprooted by its own policy and that of other imperialist powers an intensification of repression by 'deploying csce missions such as the eu naval force in the mediterranean, operation sophia (euronfor medav) and so on. at the same time, by claiming to seek "free trade and sustainable development that allows for the fair redistribution of the wealth produced", it deliberately conceals the fact that the capitalist barbarity it serves sacrifices the rights of working people for the profits of business groups. the peoples will only secure their rights when they take power and become the owners of the wealth they produce, free from the eu and any imperialist alliance.
in writing. ‒ the report attempts to legislate for the protection of the rights of illegal immigrants, with adverse effects both on the internal balance of the host countries and on the possibility of using the mechanism for their return, a possibility which is hereby attempted to be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy fails to provide answers to important questions concerning civil liberties and cooperation between the member states of the european union, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the the report calls for stronger eu-nato cooperation, the merging of internal and external security, calls for the extension of the athena mechanism beyond parliamentary control and advocates eu-funded permanent structured cooperation. the threats facing the eu are not so strong as to justify an excessive increase in its military capabilities.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the implementation of the common foreign and security policy (article 36 teu), as the report promotes stronger eu-nato cooperation, the merging of internal and external security, calls for the extension of the athena mechanism beyond parliamentary control and advocates an eu-funded permanent structured cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy for the reasons i explained in detail at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 13/12/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the eu's external action is based on three pillars: diplomacy, development and defence. the resolution sets out a reform that will make the eu more capable of offering its citizens a higher level of security. the eu, as a diplomatic superpower and at the same time a soft power, must work to ensure world peace and stability in cooperation with its international partners, the united nations and ngos. in this context, it should encourage the launching of further negotiations on the reunification of cyprus. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external action is a good one.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the instruments of the common agricultural policy to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets. i think that this report fails to provide solutions, because it does not show the faulty structure of the current model of agricultural policy, which, combined with the exclusive focus on economic profits, does not bring profits to small producers but burdens their position. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the the instability of agricultural prices is one of the main factors which have led to the dramatic situation many european farmers are experiencing today. we are in favour of the national agricultural policy and we are against this report because it considers that there are fair conditions and equal conditions of competition in the eu single market and it excludes the prospect of renationalization of the cap.
in writing. ‒ the volatility of agricultural prices is one of the main factors that have led to the dramatic situation many european farmers are experiencing today. i am in favour of the national agricultural policy and i am voting against this report because it considers that there are fair conditions and equal conditions of competition in the eu single market and it excludes the prospect of renationalising the cap.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the cap instruments for reducing price volatility on agricultural markets because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. the cap is a tool for destroying and wiping out the small and medium-sized farmers who have managed to survive after so many years of its application because of competition for the profits of the monopoly groups active in the sector. this is the reason for low producer prices below cost and high prices for the working class and the popular strata consuming the products. some of the substantive findings in the report, such as the reference in point (i) on page 4/22 to the disappearance of 2.4 million farms, are hypocritical because they do not lead to measures to address the cause; on the contrary, the measures proposed are not only 'aspirines' (the setting up of price observatories, crisis prevention, mutual funds, etc.) but also measures to reinforce the capitalist tendency to concentrate and concentrate that both the eu and the cap serve. primary production is objectively subordinated to the commercial and banking industries, as the report acknowledges, referring to them as 'a weak link in the food chain due to the increasing concentration of the sector and large enterprises'. finally, the proposal for joint inter-branch organisations of producers and undertakings as a 'solution' is like putting the wolf in the sheep pen.
in writing. ‒ the the instability of agricultural prices is one of the main factors which have led to the dramatic situation many european farmers are experiencing today. the common agricultural policy must not create distortions of the market and must take account of the specific characteristics of each member state, with the ultimate aim of strengthening those countries whose economy is based on agriculture.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, after the eurogroup and the troika turned greece into a vast social graveyard by slashing wages and pensions since 2010, after the troika filled the country with armies of unemployed and dismantled labour relations by putting collective agreements in the dustbin of history, now the council is washing its hands like pontius pilate and the european commission is pretending to have become sensitive to the workers in greece. the same applies to the syriza-anel government in the memorandum, which, continuing the memorandum options of new democracy and pasok, is now shedding crocodile tears for the workers, condemning them to starvation wages; a government that is cutting subsidiary pensions, the ecas and selling off public property for a small amount; a government that has not dared to recapitalize the insurance system and to enter german compensation into the state budget; a government that is emancipating the creditors by having a balanced retreat. enough of the hypocrisy and the double-speak! the greek people can no longer tolerate being fooled and will soon send a strong message to the troika and all its subordinates.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's opinion is not distorted by the council's decision. the greek people are european citizens on an equal footing with other european citizens and not second-class citizens, and since you all, like mr balz, agree that progress is being made in greece, there is no justification for delaying either the completion of the second evaluation or the resumption of collective bargaining, as european law requires. seventy-seven of the eighty prior actions, out of the eighty prerequisites, have already been closed. one of the three remaining is the reintroduction of collective bargaining. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and the council: the international monetary fund, which is not europe, is asking, especially for greece, not to apply the european acquis. what is your position ? the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is resolved. we must therefore run, we must move forward, and you are obliged by law, mr president of the council and mr president of the commission, to apply european legality. it is inconceivable in a eurozone member state to refuse to reinstate collective bargaining. the european union calls on bangladesh to open collective bargaining for the signing of a trade agreement. what you ask of the bangladeshis, you deny to the greeks? by what right ?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i shall not go into detail on the issues you are already familiar with, namely the excessively high rate of youth unemployment, the unacceptably low level of wages and pensions, the arbitrariness of employers and the prevalence of a working middle class which is violating the human rights of greeks. i would point out that the greeks have been selected as a test animal so that these harsh measures can be applied to them and, if they succeed, to the rest of europe. and now i will answer you honestly to the reasonable question why is all this happening ? i'm not sure. ladies and gentlemen, greece is a rich country. its subsurface and undersea space holds oil, natural gas, precious stones and precious metals. all these international moneylenders, with the german government at their head, want to take it from greece, and that is why they want to impoverish the greeks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that his greek-born voters will remember these positions in the coming years. )
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat unemployment. and how can we not create a black labour market in greece, when we have, according to the latest figures, 24.5% unemployment, 49.5% among young people, when we have flexible forms of work, 60%, that is, from the 700 euro generation, which the greek government was once accused of, we have fallen to the 300 euro generation, when we have a wage labour balance for november reduced by 37,000, that is 2% of unemployment per year, how can we not create a black labour market? madam president, we are of course saying 'no' to the social model, we are saying 'no' to what should apply to greece, as it should apply to all european countries, based on the principles and values of the european union. the greek government must pursue its policy of creating growth and prosperity for the people and european union integration so that it has the funds to cover the weaker social groups. the european union must now help greece, which is the weakest link in the european union.
s & d) and the the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. if the world of work - and this applies to the whole of the european union - is left to its own devices, the cries of populism and xenophobia will only be amplified. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization. i will not repeat the nightmarish figures on youth unemployment. the concept of work in greece is being distorted and the social fabric of the country is being destroyed, i fear, at a steady pace. the greek government is therefore right to demand not only that the evaluation be completed but also that it be closed. the myth of sisyphus is an ancient greek myth and it's a tragedy that modern greece lives it.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing these days a very bad theatre between the lenders and the tsipras government. in the name of the greek programme, in the name of the country's remaining in the eurozone, in the name of competitiveness, all greek governments have accepted the complete deregulation of the greek labour market. now the syriza government will implement a working middle age in greece in the name of an honest compromise, as the greek finance minister has said. the commission has not seen, it has not known, it has not understood what the memoranda mean all these years, it has acted as a mean lender, turning a blind eye to the violation of the charter of fundamental rights. but in this theatrical performance, dear colleagues, the political groups in the european parliament are also the protagonists, who verbally condemn the violation of the community acquis in greece, but have not accepted a resolution from today's debate saying that there must not be a country like greece that does not apply collective agreements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. hypocritical statements of support, "alliances" for supposedly defending workers, a pro-people figure in the memorandum policies for possible pre-election developments in greece.
the commission madam president, the contradictory statements of the european commission, the imf, the syriza government on debt and surpluses, with the latter pretending to be a heroic negotiator, just as before the third memorandum, its mockery as here, now, about a bad imf and a good european union with a european acquis of mini jobs, zero hours contracts, etc. hide the agreement of all of them in resources for worsening the labor jungle, abolition of collective agreements, in accordance with the interests of companies, introduction of the minimum wage of 150-200 euros, private business contracts and subordination of the salary to the profit tax, anti-inflationary measures and new measures for the dismantling of the economy, and new subsidies, already agreed by the government after the 2018 strike, and reduced by five years, after the new, bloody, bloody and bloody, coup d'état, the government has already agreed. the working class must not wait for its own slaughter, because it is the only one they fear. the strike of december 8th will be escalated by the strength of the organization, a general uprising against the employers, the european union and their parties, with the aim of overthrowing their power.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. august saw a decline in employment, although it is a tourist month during which employment has traditionally increased. in september, october and november we had a large decline in full-time jobs, as there is a trend of replacing full-time jobs with part-time jobs, most of which provide a meagre income to workers and do not contribute sufficiently to the financing of the social security system. the tsipras government is constantly increasing the tax burdens on large companies, smes, micro-enterprises and family businesses, while the 2017 state budget contains new tax measures of €3 billion, without any substantial reduction in public spending, most of which will make it even more difficult for border businesses to continue operating. more insurance burdens, more tax burdens, more bureaucracy, more energy costs, expensive money that is not always available; this is the recipe for failure in the greek labour market. that's what we need to fix. we are obviously in favour of the implementation of the european acquis, but above all we need a change in the economic policy of the government, otherwise the european acquis will have no practical significance.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. we are talking about respect for the european charter of fundamental rights and at the same time you are voting against amendments which defend them. we are talking about the european acquis and you are dismembering it in the name of the omnipotence of the laws of the market. we see nazism and extreme nationalism reaping the rewards, and you continue to support and nurture the causes that generate them. poverty, unemployment, the energy of the middle ages. do you really think that today's debate is only about greece? do you really think there is room for further reductions in what we still call the european acquis? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so you think you can convince us, both you and the council, that greece of millions of unemployed, millions of poor and excluded people is your successful experiment, as you told us earlier? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the a plan you serve and care nothing for either consequences or results.
blue-card question. – you are always talking about reforms that have not been implemented in greece. according to every statement and review, even of the european commission, commissioner moscovici said the day before: greece has made more changes than any other country in the european union. what are you talking about? then the second question is a very simple question: do you accept that greece is following the same rules as the other european countries or not? it is very simple: yes or no?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, we are calling for the return to legality, the restoration of collective agreements. from 2010 to 2012, you imposed five laws that caused the dissolution of labor relations, a ban on collective bargaining for the minimum wage. ladies and gentlemen of the commission and the council, do not hide behind the imf! get a clean seat at last! are you committed or not to the restoration of collective bargaining in greece? that is what workers and employers in my country are asking for. are you with the imf or with the european acquis ? now close the review with the greek government, unless you want us to return to a slave regime.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mrs tomc, you have rightly pointed out the responsibility of those who have governed the country and caused the large deficits and debts and bankruptcy. do you remember which party was in government when these deficits and debts were recorded? was it the new democracy party, with which you were in the same political group? why don't you tell them?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, in recent weeks we have been unwitting spectators of a theatre of paradox with the commission and the international monetary fund as the protagonists, because both institutions had agreed with the greek government to set up a committee of experts of high standing and general acceptance, which would give an opinion on issues relating to industrial relations in greece. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has delivered its opinion, and it is obvious that the power of collective bargaining, as provided for in eu law, must be maintained or rather restored, and that it is useless to unleash collective redundancies in full, which would actually lead to an increase in unemployment, rather than a reduction, in a country where unemployment is 23% of the working population. the commission and the international monetary fund are therefore invited to honour their signature by accepting the conclusions of the committee of experts. i'm not going to be a part of this.
the commission madam president, despite the bloody sacrifices made by the greek people over the last seven years, despite the unprecedented recession that greece has not known since the second world war, despite the continuing failure of the measures imposed by the union, we are again witnessing the attempt to blackmail greece into accepting a new package of measures that will have no other effect than to deepen the crisis. in particular, it is very easy to propose in the labour market the circumvention of labour acquis and rights, with the sole aim of serving capital and large companies. you are not interested in turning greece into a special economic zone and the workers into serfs. but don't think of my country as a colony, and such practices will have no chance. even if they do, to us they are the product of blackmail, so there will be no commitment to implement them when the people choose to have a national government. the economic war and the attempt to impose on the whole continent, our continent, the absurd german demands will not only be resisted but crushed by the healthy national forces that are awakening throughout europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu-turkey declaration-agreement has significantly reduced the flows of refugees and migrants from the turkish coast. nevertheless, we have recently been averaging about a hundred arrivals a day. it should be noted that in the islands of the north-east aegean, there are currently 16 000 people in places of less than half capacity, living in difficult conditions, while in the whole country there are over 65 000, with enormous responsibilities, i stress, of the present greek government, which is proceeding without a plan, creating a dead end. it is obvious that tensions and incidents are being created, which are testing the resilience of greek society. the resettlement of refugees to the member states is working, but at a slow pace, as are the returns of irregular migrants to turkey. the agreement is being respected, but with problems, with the consequence that greece is unable to accept more foreigners and to ensure them decent living conditions, given that hundreds of thousands of my fellow citizens are already living below the poverty line, due to the recession in which the country is in for the seventh consecutive year. in the light of these facts, if there is any, the unsatisfactory return of asylum seekers to greece, as implemented by dublin, is certain to create absolute suffocation and an explosive situation that will be unmanageable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mrs voseberg, you spoke of the responsibilities of the greek government. it is the responsibility of the greek government that the relocations of the supposedly two thousand people a month are actually being carried out in sub-multiples of numbers, or is it the responsibility of the greek government that, while the other member states have been promised one hundred experts and one hundred interpreters by the european asylum service, in fact there are currently 36 in greece.
ppe), answer to a question with a blue card. thank you for asking. mr. colleague, undoubtedly the european union's responsibilities for the malfunction you pointed out have also been pointed out by us, but it is the responsibility of the greek government that in october 2015 it accepted that our country has the capacity to accommodate 50,000 people, 20,000 of them with rent subsidies, while there was no infrastructure then, as there is still no infrastructure, with the sole responsibility of the government that runs the country.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. you are right to point out the need to take responsibility. can you comment on the extremely slow implementation of the refugee resettlement programme within the european union? it is, according to the guardian, at 5% overall. hungary and poland have not accepted a single refugee, slovakia 9 and the czech republic 12. do you think it is fair for these countries to receive european funds for their farmers and infrastructure and to deny their european obligations to the refugees?
the commission mr president, the commission, through the commissioner responsible, is proposing the return of refugees to greece. the proposal concerns refugees who will be illegally in another member state, not the huge number of illegal immigrants. we have known about illegal immigrants until now; now we have learned about the existence of illegal refugees. the memoranda have made greece a country that is depreciated, desolate and impoverished economically, socially and labour-wise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. after that, i wonder if there's any shyness, decency, dignity. will the commissioner responsible resign? will there be an admission from the president of the commission and the leaders of the countries that the deal with erdogan was a huge mistake? i am a realist and i do not expect such a display of self-criticism and self-evaluation from politicians who congratulate and applaud each other when their only achievement is the impoverishment and de-christianization of the people. i only hope that the peoples of europe will finally wake up from their slumber and choose, on the basis of nationalist criteria, those who will represent them in the european institutions.
s & d) and the mr president, commissioner, are we talking about returns to greece because of dublin? migrants who fall under the turkey deal and are therefore to be transferred there? i couldn't agree more. agreements must be kept in their entirety. what, then, do the council and the commission promise? four hundred e.r.o. officers to go to the greek islands to expedite asylum applications. right now we have 46! then 63,000 refugees were resettled in other member states. right now, 6,300 have been relocated! the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the member states are able to comply with the dublin ii directive, and i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. finally, they must by all means maintain the agreement with turkey, which has reduced the flow of deaths and offers better living conditions for syrians in turkey. to this end, i would suggest that the council, meeting tomorrow, reject parliament's proposal to freeze the negotiations and keep all channels open. let's not kill the deal!
the commission the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the reality that it is not prepared to accept the reality that it is not prepared to accept the reality that it is not prepared to accept the reality that it is not prepared to accept the reality that it is not prepared to accept the reality that it is not prepared to accept the reality that it is not. what measures will you take to relieve the immediate congestion on the aegean islands where over 16,500 refugees are stranded? is it true that the government has said that the commission does not allow them to be transported to mainland greece because, as the government says, this is prohibited by the eu-turkey agreement? the dublin iii refunds to greece are not going to be accepted by the greek people. we would point out, as you know, that the return procedure is a matter for the member states. so i ask you: does germany commit to no return under dublin of refugees who have passed through greece in 2015 and 2016? the german minister of the interior, mr de maizière, says otherwise. what is needed is not returns via dublin, neither now nor in the future, but resettlement, since of the 66,400 only 5,700 refugees have been resettled from greece to other european union states.
the commission mr president, your own decisions are clear: secondary movements of refugees are prohibited. that is why the european union and the greek government are holding thousands of refugees in unacceptable conditions in the dead of winter in the wretched hot spots on the greek islands that are the victims of the unacceptable eu-turkey agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet as bad as it was in the former yugoslavia. and not only that, but at the request of the syriza-anel government you are sending reinforced forces of the euro-border guard to greece's borders with macedonia and albania, so that the balkan corridor remains closed to the uprooted, victims of your own imperialist wars. the european union and the government are responsible because the results of their policies feed the poisonous propaganda of the fascists, who are leading the provocations aimed at turning the islanders against the victims of the imperialist wars and choices of the european union. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. human terms of hospitality! direct transport to the countries they have chosen!
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the problem is the implementation of your own decisions. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the reality of the situation. the implementation of the relocation programme is limited to 5%, according to official figures, and for greece, of the 63,000 relocated, just over 6,000 were relocated. instead of 400 specialists to serve the asylum procedures you have sent about 40. and at the same time there is this accusation against greece and italy that they are not doing enough. by who ? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. these countries want a europe à la carte; they want funds for their farmers, for infrastructure projects, but they refuse to take on the obligations. and i ask you: your proposals for sanctions against these countries or at least for them to share in the cost of this why have they disappeared?
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his performance. clear rules on visa-free travel and its possible suspension or withdrawal should be adopted, as visa-free travel for ukraine and georgia is, in my view, of particular importance also from a geopolitical point of view. we have to open up our arms to these countries and offer them cooperation so that they have a clear vision for the future, because the situation in these countries, as we know, is very difficult and they are under enormous pressure from russia. i consider it extremely important from a geopolitical point of view - as a member of parliament for the czech republic, which unfortunately was under the influence of the soviet union in the second half of the 20th century, within czechoslovakia - to cooperate with the countries of the former soviet union, to offer them an open arms, and for that we need the rules that the rapporteur has negotiated. i welcome it very much and i accept the rules.
the commission the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. i shall take advantage of your being here and continue what i said earlier, because the commission's announcement is indeed what you said, that after 15 march there will be, if there will be, resupply. but in order to avoid repatriation, two things must happen: either the legislation in relation to dublin iii is changed and germany is prohibited from doing so, or germany and other countries commit themselves not to do so. i therefore accept the commission's assurances of its intentions, but that does not prevent germany from proceeding with these procedures, and that must be clear. and secondly, does the commission ultimately forbid the greek government to take a decision and transfer some of the 16 000 refugees who are trapped on the aegean islands? we need a clear answer to that.
the commission mr president, a few days ago it became known that more than seven hundred confidential pages of europol had been leaked on the internet, including names and telephone numbers of individuals. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. in addition to the failure to prevent terrorist attacks in france and belgium, europol is now experiencing internal leaks of classified files. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. the fact that it took so long to inform parliament of this matter shows that even stricter parliamentary control of europol's activities is needed.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i am sorry, mrs veld, but the debate is over and so is the list of speakers. i can't give you the floor. if you wish, you can make a comment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet known whether the council will take a decision on the matter. the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the obligations in the field of visa reciprocity of mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000142/2016 - b8-1820/2016) (2016/2986 ((rsp)).
the commission mr president, visa reciprocity is a fundamental element of the common visa policy of the european union. the common policy aims to achieve full reciprocity, visa-free travel for all member states of the union. we see that the united states, canada until recently, and brunei still impose a visa requirement on citizens of certain member states of the european union, despite the fact that their own citizens are exempt from the visa requirement. in particular, we have heard that it is romania, bulgaria, poland, croatia and cyprus, that is to say, the citizens of these countries are being treated with discretion by the united states. i think it is a very important development that the commissioner has said this about canada. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of citizens are respected and that the rights of citizens are protected.
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the attack on the coptic cathedral in cairo - freedom of religion and freedom of belief (2016/3037 ((rsp))
the commission mr president, first of all i would like to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims of the terrorist attack carried out by daesh on sunday at st andrew's cathedral in cairo. last week the ecr group, led by myself, went to cairo and met with the egyptian leadership and mr sisi. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. the terrorist attack was first of all an attack on all egyptians. the fact that egyptian newspapers circulated with the headline "we are all copts" means a lot. it means that there is and is slowly coming a unity among the egyptian people. everyone understands that the terrorist attack on the church, which took place on the day of the celebration of muhammad, was aimed at creating tensions and conflicts between muslims and christians. it is something that the egyptian people themselves are not going to allow, namely to fall victim to terrorism and to clash with each other. so what daesh wanted to do is definitely not going to happen.
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the recognition of the content of the certificates of mady delvaux's personal status, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-000145/2016 - b8-1819/2016) (2016/3000 ((rsp)).
the commission mr president, more than 14 million european citizens live outside their country of origin. according to eurobarometer, 73% of eu citizens believe that measures should be taken to improve the circulation of public documents between eu countries. the abolition of the apostille stamp is timely today because of the increase in the flow of young people and is a positive development that will enhance the free movement of citizens, their settlement in another country and finding work. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is estimated that by abolishing these requirements, citizens and businesses in the european union will save eur 330 million, not counting the time and effort saved.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. the company deliberately concealed its knowledge of the drug's side effects by giving false information when experts began linking thalidomide to neurological disorders. moreover, the drug company never paid compensation to the families of the children, only a small pension, and was not sufficiently convicted for the harm it caused. the member states, however, are also to blame for the cover-up of this serious matter, and in particular the german government, which did not check the medicinal product in question even after the first complaints and side effects. we discussed the thalidomide issue and the citizens' complaints to the committee on petitions and what we heard was really shocking. the european union must, after many years of delay, support and help the victims and their families by demanding that the german pharmaceutical company and the german state pay them a satisfactory amount of compensation.
the commission mr president, there is a european indifference to paediatric medicines and paediatric research programmes, and there is an almost systematic postponement of paediatric studies. the european union must ensure that medicines used for the therapeutic treatment of children meet the highest standards and are subject to high quality ethical research. the union must also ensure that all children have access to the necessary medicines and vaccines. in greece, there are serious shortages of paediatric medicines and vaccines. the situation may have unforeseen consequences, as shortages of childhood vaccines, such as hepatitis b, in areas with large numbers of refugees are particularly high. in lesvos in particular, there is a huge shortage, with pharmacists filing lawsuits against the pharmaceutical company responsible for the distribution of medicines in greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it makes sense, since the people who judge the committee are also the members who made the decisions. but things are not so rosy. and that's true for handling a lot of reports. i would like to mention a few examples of greek interest: the rapporteur of the european left in her report does not mention a word about the issue of war reparations owed by germany to greece, a subject which has been the subject of the work of the coordinators and of the committee on petitions on several occasions following my initiatives in this regard. the committee on petitions has rejected at least five times my proposals to hold a public hearing on german reparations. on 29 november 2016, the committee rejected my amendment no 172 on this issue. the european left abstained in this case, supporting in practice the position of the syriza government, which has not only abandoned the fight for german reparations but is also undermining it wherever it can. the rapporteur of the european left also does not mention the important decision of the appeals committee of october 2015, which accepted my submission and the appeal of the national resistance fighters of the eprdf-greece on the issue of germany's debts to greece. for the first time, germany was invited to make a public statement on german compensation to a european intermediary body, such as the committee on petitions. but the syriza-anel government has in practice undermined our fight for german reparations and has contented itself with sending an early intervention from the greek parliament through a member of the european parliament. the committee on petitions has therefore found an opportunity and, in a politically unacceptable decision, has rejected my objection to the report of the national resistance fighters on german reparations. the ecr is therefore opposed to the 2015 action report of the committee on petitions.
the commission madam president, the committee on petitions of the european parliament is not an organ of democratic control, but an organ for the imposition of the reactionary policy of the european union, as the report admits, and for the manipulation of popular protest. its role, and that of other eu institutions, was unacceptable and provocative in the joint initiative of the communist party of greece and the panhellenic union of national resistance fighters - democratic army of greece to report on war reparations, for the destruction and victims of the nazi occupation in greece 1941-1944, which germany has refused to pay for seventy years. the committee on petitions, with the intervention of the european commission and the assistance of the syriza government, the gue and other forces, closed the case, on the pretext that the issue concerned interstate relations and not the european union. while, with selective sensitivities to your interests, you pass resolutions on war crimes, you refuse to implement international agreements to claim compensation for victims of nazism, condemning again, seventy years later, again the victims, giving a reprieve to the nazi gangs that stand up and trample on this policy.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, what is the committee on petitions for european citizens? the portal to the european parliament, bringing citizens closer together. it helps us european meps to understand the problem that is plaguing european citizens in all 28 countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee on petitions helps us all become a little better people by listening and looking for the right answer. from there we encourage citizens to exercise their democratic right to criticise and complain, that is to say to act more democratically. the report by mrs vallina is the best proof of the importance of the work of the committee, of the seriousness of the work of its secretariat. i therefore welcome its proposal to strengthen the committee on petitions with more technical resources and staff. it is our democratic face and we must strengthen it in every way.
the commission madam president, the rapporteur has referred to me. i should remind her that in her report, which she is drawing up herself, she has not mentioned the question of german reparations. that's what i told her. this is a serious matter. (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission madam president, i would like to say to mrs vallina, who is not here, that what she did not do was to record and report in her report on the activities we carried out in connection with german reparations. so he wrote nothing about the rejection of my proposals in relation to the public hearing on german compensation and he wrote nothing about the commission's decision to go ahead and consider the german compensation report admissible following my proposal in october 2015. madam president, when i asked you to speak, i asked you to speak on personnel matters and not on procedural matters, and you had to give me the floor. instead of disciplining colleagues who wouldn't let me speak, you're making comments about me supposedly clouding the conversation! this is not the right procedure on your part, because i wanted to defend my honour and my reputation in this case against what the honourable member said.
the commission mr president, we have discussed on several occasions the repression of the rohingya minority in myanmar, where there is now open violation of human rights and persecution of this minority. the country's basic laws now violate international conventions: the criminal code, the law banning peaceful assembly and demonstration, the telecommunications law, the media law. in addition, over 130,000 displaced rohingya remain in camps in other areas, while the myanmar authorities have made humanitarian access to the areas inadequate. in the face of the continued violation of the human rights of the rohingya, the myanmar authorities should finally put an end to the form of religious and racial hatred, and the european union should condemn any form of discrimination against them.
mr president, i support this resolution, particularly in the parts which deal in principle with the legal questions of the follow-up to the condemnation of the war crimes of the islamic state. i think it is very good that the resolution contains such proposals as the need for the international community to send forensic experts to iraq to help exhume mass graves and to help provide evidence for subsequent trials against those who have committed these crimes against humanity. equally important are the parts of the resolution that call on iraq to join the international criminal court, to become a signatory to this international organization, because that is very important for us to really be able to effectively condemn the crimes against humanity committed by the members of the islamic state. equally important is the general call for the international community to prosecute these crimes everywhere in the world under the principle of the universality of criminal law.
the commission the commission is also aware of the fact that the european union has been involved in the negotiations with the united states and that the united states has been involved in the negotiations with the united states. it is estimated that there are hundreds more mass graves in the areas under isis control. the number of confirmed victims that may be in these graves is shocking, as it exceeds fifteen thousand victims. isis has made no attempt to hide the massacres it has committed. on the contrary, he is constantly trying to scare the world by releasing videos of beheadings and torture, while also unleashing threats against the west. the terrorist threat must stop. the european union needs to take action against the arab countries that support daesh in syria and against turkey, which also supports daesh and helps the jihadist oil smugglers. peace and social justice must be established in the middle east. it is a matter that concerns us all.
in writing. ‒ the the report adopted concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of the member states and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (review of the suspension mechanism). a large majority of members of all political groups supported this agreement. i personally voted in favour of the above proposal, as this change will give parliament a greater role in the visa suspension procedure.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the report on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 on the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of the member states and on the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (revision of the suspension mechanism). i think that the report contains proposals which are out of date and disproportionate, which are burdensome for the citizens and do not correspond to european ideals, and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ what is urgently needed, given the increased flow of illegal immigrants, extremists and members of international organised crime, is not a temporary suspension of the visa exemption for third-country nationals. the community list must be abolished completely. each member state will decide which third-country nationals may be exempted from the visa requirement.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report, because what is urgently needed, given the increased flow of illegal immigrants, extremists and members of international organised crime, is not the temporary suspension of the visa exemption for third-country nationals. the community list must be abolished completely. each member state will decide which third-country nationals may be exempted from the visa requirement.
in writing. ‒ since 2013 there is a provision by which a mechanism could be put in place to suspend the ‘visa-free’ status by the commission for a period of six months. any member states may trigger this suspension mechanism. i voted against this report because the commission is using this mechanism as a migration tool and even tries to make it easier to implement the mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 14/12/2016, and because the report is sufficiently well-founded.
in writing. ‒ what is urgently needed, given the increased flow of illegal immigrants, extremists and members of international organised crime, is not a temporary suspension of the visa exemption for third-country nationals, but the complete removal of the community list. each member state should decide which third-country nationals may be exempted from the visa requirement.
in writing. ‒ the as regards the protection measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community, i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure. in particular, the spread of xylella fastidiosa in italy and the introduction of non-native plant species into europe have once again demonstrated the need to ensure that all imported plant species and plant products are free from the harmful organism. we must be particularly careful, since it takes only one infected plant to destroy an entire industry or an entire economy of a region.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the objection concerning the protection measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community. i think that this is a positive step towards protecting the environment and the health of europeans, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the the draft commission implementing directive, which aims to amend annexes i to v to directive 2000/29/ec, is contrary to the objectives of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 in that it undermines the requirements for the introduction into the union of certain fruits susceptible to harmful organisms, in particular as regards citrus pollen and citrus cancer. the purpose of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 is to identify the plant health risks posed by each species, strain or biotype of pathogenic agents, animals or parasitic plants harmful to plants or plant products ('pests') and measures to reduce those risks to an acceptable level. the amendment of the implementing directive proposed hereby is therefore considered necessary.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 is to identify the plant health risks posed by each species, strain or biotype of pathogenic agents, animals or parasitic plants harmful to plants or plant products ('harmful organisms') and measures to reduce those risks to an acceptable level. i therefore support the amendment of the implementing directive proposed here as necessary.
in writing. ‒ through this report, the commission wants to implement a directive in order to determine the phytosanitary risks posed by a strain or biotype of pathogenic agents, animals or parasitic plants injurious to plants at second level to reduce those risks. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing directive amending annexes i to v to council directive 2000/29/ec on measures to be taken against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community, because, as stated in the motion for a resolution, the draft commission implementing directive in question is not in accordance with union law.
in writing. ‒ the eu must take all necessary measures to identify the plant health risks posed by each species, strain or biotype of pathogenic agents, animals or parasitic plants harmful to plants or plant products ('harmful organisms') and take corresponding measures to reduce those risks to an acceptable level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above resolution on support for thalidomide victims, as i consider it necessary that they be officially recognised by all member states. it is now time for the victims of the substance to be given fair and adequate compensation from the special fund of the german contegran foundation.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the motion for a resolution on providing support for the victims of thalidomide. it is obvious that we must stand by the citizens and relatives of citizens whose health has been damaged by thalidomide, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the needs of thalidomide survivors in europe are fully recognised in order to ensure their autonomy, access to healthcare and a decent quality of life, and an assistance programme should be established to complement member states' efforts to provide financial support to thalidomide victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the proposal, as it is essential that the needs of thalidomide survivors in europe are fully recognised in order to ensure their autonomy, access to healthcare and a decent quality of life, and that an assistance programme is established to complement member states' efforts to provide financial support to thalidomide victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on support for thalidomide victims for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 14/12/2016, and because this joint motion for a resolution is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu must take appropriate action to fully recognise the claims of thalidomide survivors in europe, with a view to ensuring their autonomy, access to healthcare and a decent quality of life.
in writing. ‒ the many children with rare paediatric diseases do not have access to specific paediatric medicines, resulting in unintended medicines being prescribed on the basis of experience without the necessary clinical research. the paediatric regulation has greatly improved drug development and has led to progress in the field of paediatric diseases but there is still a very large margin for improvement. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on paediatric medicines, as it is necessary to ensure that children are given medicines which can effectively and safely treat paediatric diseases.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on paediatric medicines is another attempt to better regulate the framework surrounding the prescription and supply of paediatric medicines, with the aim of protecting children and the population as a whole, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the children are a vulnerable population group and differ from adults in terms of their development, physiology and psychology. research in relation to age and development, and the availability of appropriate pharmaceutical products, are of particular importance. the paediatric medicines regulation was adopted ten years ago to ensure high quality research into the development of medicines for children and the proper authorisation of medicines used by them. the regulation achieved many of its objectives, but several weaknesses were identified in 2013 in the progress report adopted by the commission, in particular as regards paediatric research programmes and paediatric oncology. the commission is therefore urged to adopt urgently any regulatory changes that could help to improve the situation, to strengthen the role of the european paediatric clinical research network and to ensure that member states adopt measures to strengthen research and development and the marketing of paediatric medicines. we therefore support the proposal and vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the children are a vulnerable population group and differ from adults in terms of their development, physiology and psychology. research in relation to age and development, and the availability of appropriate pharmaceutical products, are of particular importance. the paediatric medicines regulation was adopted ten years ago to ensure high quality research into the development of medicines for children and the proper authorisation of medicines used by them. the regulation achieved many of its objectives, but several weaknesses were identified in 2013 in the progress report adopted by the commission, in particular as regards paediatric research programmes and paediatric oncology. the present proposal calls on the commission to adopt urgently any possible regulatory changes that could help to improve the situation, to strengthen the role of the european paediatric clinical research network and to ensure that member states adopt measures to strengthen research and development and the marketing of medicinal products for paediatric use, which is why i support the proposal and vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the paediatric medicines regulation for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 14/12/2016, and because the motion for a resolution is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu should urgently adopt any regulatory change that could help improve the situation, strengthen the role of the european paediatric clinical research network and ensure that member states adopt measures to boost research and development and the availability of medicines for paediatric use.
in writing. ‒ any legislation, as well as activity concerning migration policies, european citizenship, the rights of people belonging to minorities, are contrary to our principles and constitute a threat to the security and economy of the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ any legislation, as well as activity concerning migration policies, european citizenship, the rights of people belonging to minorities, are contrary to our principles and constitute a threat to the security and economy of the european union. for these reasons, i am voting against the report of the committee on petitions on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2015.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to give a precise and full view of the work done by the committee on petitions. it provides statistics on the number of petitions received, dealt with and closed by the committee, the countries concerned and the matters raised. this report also covers other aspects such as relations with other eu institutions and with national and regional authorities. i voted in favour of this report since not only it gives an overview of the annual activities but also calls for a participative democracy in the eu and is also very critical towards the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2015 for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 15/12/2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the eu has lost the trust of citizens and unfortunately it is not trying to create proper, simple and functional mechanisms to give weight to their voice, their concerns and their concerns. on the contrary, it only promotes what it considers to be important issues with the aim of distorting nations and christian values.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to international air transport agreements, as the conclusion of such agreements would bring about adverse changes both in the safety standards regime and in the existing conditions regime in the event of a potential investment in a european air carrier (reduction of the principle that 49% of the air carrier must be owned by europeans, etc.). at a time when european airlines are facing a host of financial problems, with the risk of their going out of business being visible, it is at least unfortunate that there is talk of allowing (mainly) muslim countries to enter the european aviation market on extremely favourable terms.
in writing. ‒ the commission adopted an aviation strategy for europe in december 2015. the aim of this resolution is to open negotiations on eu-level aviation safety agreements with japan and china and air services agreements with the following countries: china, turkey, mexico, six member states of the gulf cooperation council, armenia and the association of southeast asian nations (asean). i voted in favour of this resolution in order to include the european parliament in the process of negotiation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on international air transport agreements for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 23/11/2016, and because the motion for a resolution is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution calls for the conclusion of aviation safety agreements with japan and china and eu-level air services agreements with asean, turkey, qatar and the united arab emirates. unfortunately, the conclusion of these agreements will bring about adverse changes both in the safety standards regime and in the existing conditions in the event of a potential investment in a european carrier (reduction of the principle that 49% of the carrier must be owned by europeans, etc.). at a time when european airlines are facing a host of financial problems, with the risk of their going out of business being visible, it is at least unfortunate that there is talk of allowing (mainly) muslim countries to enter the european aviation market on extremely favourable terms.
the commission the customs code is the basis for the functioning of the customs union. but we must not forget how the customs union and the common agricultural policy started, because they are mechanisms for the protection of the european union itself, for the protection of the economy, that is why there is a customs union. now we've reached the other end. there is no customs union at all! customs duties have been abolished with almost all countries. minimal customs duties are collected. we have duty-free imports of oil from tunisia, we have duty-free imports from ukraine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the trend, which is also evident in the united states from mr trump. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, mr president, since i seem to be the last speaker, i would like to wish you, the commissioner, my colleagues, a merry christmas, a happy new year in 2017 with strength and health, and also the interpreters who have remained with us until now.
